Dystopia Rising LARP Network
Survivor's Guide 2.0

LARP Rules for the Dystopia Rising Network
Intended for use at licensed Dystopia Rising events.
                All rights reserved.
 Credits
Original World Creation
                                    Michael Pucci
Executive Producer
Ashley Zdeb
Contributing Writers
             Michael Pucci, Ashley Zdeb, Catie Grif n, Peter Woodworth,
                      Megan Jaffe, Sean Jaffe and Matthew Volk
Additional Materials
       Joshua Demers, Matt Wallace, Liam Neary, Mike Malecki, Ben Przybylinski
Contributing Artists
      Anastasia Marston, Cryssy Cheung, Zach Herschberger, Joshua Brain Jaffe,
            Peter Moschel Johnson, Liz Lehman, Marcus Kim, Richard Gore,
                 Jaclyn Wellner, Jennifer Lazaroff, Richard Sampson,
                     Andrew Scott, Ralph Attanasia, Matthew Volk
Layout and Design
                                 Joshua Brain Jaffe
Copyright 2009-2016 Dystopia Rising LLC
All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form by any means, mechanical, electronic, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without written permission of Dystopia Rising LLC.
All illustrations and images are property of Eschaton Media or used under the allowed rights of public domain.
Dystopia Rising is a registered trademark of Michael Pucci and may not be used without written permission of Michael Pucci.
 
 
     Forward 7
    How To Use This Book 10
Flesh
Dystopia Rising Basics 14 History, “Simpli ed” 19 The Player 26
You And Your Character 55
Blood
Character Creation 64
Strains
        Baywalkers 72
        Diesel Jocks 74
        Full Dead 76
        Genjian 78
        Iron Slaves 80
        Lacarians 82
        Mericans 84
        Nation Of Accensor 86
        Natural Ones 88
        Pure Bloods 90
        Reclaimers 92
        The Red Star 94
        Remnants 96
        Retrogrades 98
        Rovers 100
        Salt Wise 102
        Semper Mort 104
        Solestors 106
        Unborn Of Têixiptla 108
        Vegasians 110
Yorkers 112
      What does Your Character Do?
        Open Skill List 117
        Professions
          Assassin 118
          Caravan Driver 119
          Charlatan 120
          Cook 121
          Distiller 122
          Doctor 123
          Engineer 124
          Entertainer 125
          Farmer 126
          Fishmonger 127
          Gambler 128
          Guard 129
          Gun Slinger 130
          Hook-Up 131
          Hunter 132
          Jones 133
      Mad Scientist 134
      Martial Artist 135
      Merchant 136
      Of cer 137
      Politician 138
      Priest 139
      Primitive 140
      Printer 141
      Psionist 142
      Publican 143
      Pugilist 144
      Ring Leader 145
      Sawbones 146
      Scavenger 147
      Scoundrel 148
      Sniper 149
      Soldier 150
      Spy 151
      Teacher 152
      Theif 153
      Thug 154
      Tinker 155
Skills 158

Table of Contents
Brewing 165
Building Tomorrow 166
Forging The Future 179
Holy Rites 181
Master Crafstman 187
Table:
Table:
Table:
Table:
Table:
Table: Trap Making 198
Lores And Lore Use 203
Restricted Lores 217
Psionics 219
Basic Psionic Skills 221 Intermediate Psionic Skills 223 Advanced Psionic Skills 225
Experience 227
Assistance Points 233
Profession Concentration 235
    Combat Profession 236
    Civilized Society 239
    Crafting And Production 243
Advanced Professions 247
    Apocatastian Templar 250
    Avontuur 252
    Bone Breaker 254
    Entrepreneur 256
    Free Radical 258
    G-Man 260
    Gear Head 264
    Grave Robber 268
    Marksman 270
    Mercenary 272
    Merican Ba-das 274
         Mind Killer 276
        Monk 278
        Mountebank 280
        Nephilim 282
        Oni 284
        Overlord 286
        Reaper 288
        Sage 290
        Saint 292
        Shadow 296
        Shepherd Of The Land 298
        Survivor 300
        Techno Savant 302
        Thought Bender 304
        Veteran 306
        Villon 308
Muscle
World Knowledge And
Information 310
      A Closer Look At The World 313
      Religions
Church Of The Telling Visions 318 Sainthood Of Ashes 322
The Nuclear Family 326
Church Of Darwin 330
        Cult Of Fallow Hopes 334
        Final Knights 338
        Virtues Of The Kings Court 342
        Tribes Of The Seasons 346
        Light Of Hedon 350
      Regions Of The World
        African Continent 354
        Asian Continent 355
        Australian Continent 357
        European Continent 360
        Greenland 361
        North American Continent 362
        South American Continent 367
        Outer Space 368
Secret Societies 369
Slang & Strainist Terminology 373
Bone
Mechanics & Con ict Resolution 384 Contact Safe Combat 390
Damage VS Health 393
Damage VS Armor 396
Dying And Bleed Out 398
Items And Equiptment
        Table: Starter Equiptment 407
        Brews 410
        Item Mechanics 413
        Weapons 415
Searching Bodies And Looting 421
PC VS PC Death And Theft 422 Mechanical Terms & Combat Modi ers 425 Derangements And Diseases
  Diseases 433
  Derangements 446
Table of Contents
 
 Disclaimer/Waiver/Assumption of Risk
This book provides rules for boffer-style combat. Although these rules outline the safest experience we can create, you are responsible for the risks that are associated with any physical activity and for your own safety, including boffer weapon creation, safe and proper combat, and adjusting for terrain and weather.
        Dystopia Rising LLC, its employees, and related companies, assumes no
responsibility or liability, including but not limited to injury, damage or loss
incurred by using these rules in a roleplaying game setting. You are responsible
for complying with all local, state and federal laws, regulations, and statutes.
Finally, remember that this is just a game. Stay safe and have fun.

 Forward
Dystopia Rising, as both LARP and a table top game, began back in 2005 as a game world concept created by Michael Pucci. Starting as just a series of notes and general concepts, the current game did not begin to truly come together until 2009. Although Michael Pucci and Ashley Zdeb began this trip as a private hobby project intended to be shared with their friends, the concept soon grew. In 2010, Dystopia Rising began opening its doors to the general public and allowed people to participate in and affect the game world as a whole.
    Since 2009, the game has changed and expanded well beyond a private
endeavor. Today, the game is a widely spread network of interlinked gaming
businesses, and the game world is enjoyed by thousands as both a live action
role playing game and also as a table top gaming universe.
    Additional materials were created to assist with the training, supplies,
and further de nition of the game universe; these included table top materials,
live action role playing rules, and Dystopia Rising Network-provided game
Director materials. In the four years since Dystopia Rising became available
to the public, over 5,000 pages of support material have been produced and
made available. Between the initial conceptual design and the expansion into a
full living and breathing community, well over 1,000 pages of LARP game support
materials have been produced. These materials outline antagonists, check-in
procedures, book keeping, storytelling techniques, blueprints, and territory
maps. At the time of the production of this book, a trilogy of novels will have
been released, nine table top books, and two LARP books.
    All of this was produced in roughly four short years.
    We have no intent on stopping there. The current design outlook is for
a total of 13 table top books that outline the majority of the world.  In
addition, we are looking at supplementary assistance materials like in-character
creature guides, in-genre equipment guides (catalogs), and even texts written
from within the world itself, all to help provide a colorful perspective of the
world. We have penciled in potential additional books if there is an interest
for it, and we plan on supporting all of these table top materials with matching
live action roleplay translations.
With all of these additional source materials being available, we have had one focus in regards to our live action mechanics and rules: keep it short
and simple. Originally we designed the Dystopia Rising LARP rules in a massive format that had very detailed legal-document style speak for every single Skill, every single situation we could imagine, and nearly every single scenario. De nitions of each Skill were almost all half a page long or more. Each Skill was overly detailed and cumbersome.
    What we found in the  rst play tests and events was that we had a good
amount of debate, argument, and rules discussion. So we reworded almost every
Skill (sometimes multiple times) and provided the simplest statement we could
for each Skill’s mechanics. We tried to capture the spirit of the rules and
provide a design where the rules ‘did exactly what they said’ instead of being
‘open for interpretation.’ What we found was that we had almost the exact same
amount of rules debate and discussion (from the same people); however, we had a
lot more people showing up to game. The complex wording and long explanations
actually worked as a barrier to prevent people from trying game for the  rst
time.

7
     As we continue to expand and provide more resources for the world,
understand one thing: it is our goal to continue to try to keep rules and
mechanics as simple as possible. In addition, as technology and gaming
techniques advance, so too will our game design to adapt to these new
innovations.  This means that the LARP rules as a whole can, and will,
occasionally change. The LARP rules will evolve to adapt to the needs and want
of the network, and we will attempt to address where some sections have become
overly technical and other sections overly simpli ed.
    As we introduce Dystopia Rising LARP 2.0, understand that this design change
isn’t a deviation from the core spirit of the game, but instead a tool to help
address over  ve years of design and mechanical evolution that the community
has requested. We have looked at the most commonly asked questions, addressed
concerns and con icts, and added source materials, with the intent of ensuring
that the LARP book addresses the expanding world as much as is needed without
over-de ning every square inch.
    And as we, the creators, have now been provided the resources to reach for
the larger vision of a more de ned world, you will see some changes in the focus
of this LARP book verses books of the past. Descriptions of territories will be
at a more macro level instead of micro de nitions, allowing players a greater
concept of the territory as a whole instead of the individual strongholds. You
will see that the Lore section has been expanded, as well as an addition to
disease mechanics. In areas where wording was seen as confusing, we have brought
on multiple writers and editors to reword these mechanics without changing the
spirit of their use.  We’ve added lists of defenses to called Skills, so that
there is no confusion in regards to what Skills are used to counter what powers.
    We also have added more details in regards to what we want as a community,
how it is that we intend to grow, and guidelines for the culture that we want to
encourage.
    And we also know that no matter how hard we try, there will be sections for
debate and argument. It is in the very nature of humanity to see ambiguity where
the intent is cut and dried. That said, we will continue to support this book
with online network updates to clarify details for you, our community members.
    We’ve learned a lot in the past  ve years. If you look at our  rst
publications compared to our most recent, you can see the education and growth
that has happened as not only a community, but also as writers and designers.
With this in mind, it was time to take everything that we learned and improve
the resource without overly changing the content.
    We hope that the materials within this document provide more than they
detract from your experience, and above all else, we hope you have fun.
8

  
9
 How to Use This Book
This is a pretty damned big book.
    However, this is not just a book of rules. All in all, the actual rules and
mechanics of a Dystopia Rising LARP probably take less than 30 pages. The reason
why this book is so thick is that we have a lot of different subject matters in
here, because while we hope you may read the Dystopia Rising game books that
this LARP is based on, we have to sadly assume that there is a very real chance
that you may not read them.
    This means that we have  t a wide variety of subject matter into a single
book. If you are the reading sort, and good on you if you are, then feel free to
read this entire book as well as all of the details of the table top world in
the other books. There are thousands of pages of materials available for you to
have a better understanding of the world.
    However, if you are just looking for what you need to play, here is what
we suggest. Read the entire section entitled ‘Flesh.’ This covers a lot of the
basics and our community guidelines. Community is very important to us, and, we
want to make sure that you are a part of it. You will probably  nd that most
of the materials in the Flesh section are no-brainers, focused on the ideas of
common decency and fair play. You may learn a bit here and there, but if we
didn’t write these rules down someone may very well say ‘Well you never told
us.’
    While no book is all-inclusive and covers every subject in the detail level
that it needs, we strive to  nd a nice balance between giving exhaustive detail
and keeping things short enough that you might just read it.
    Next,  ip to character creation in the Blood section. If you follow the
steps of character creation, you will easily make your character. If you have
a hard time with character creation, it’s no big deal. Each Branch of Dystopia
Rising will have people that will help you make your character. If you do make
your character yourself, though, remember to read the Skills you have. This will
let you know what your character will do.
    Skip everything about Profession Concentrations and Advanced Professions
and go straight to the section entitled Bone. In the Bone section you will  nd a
really large section that tries to encompass every potential rule scenario that
could exist (and with as many players and branches as we have, there is no doubt
we still missed thousands of things they will think up later). What is important
for you is reading the Mechanical Interaction section. Most of this will be
reviewed when you go to an event and get your new player training, but it’s good
to at least have read it once beforehand.
    Lastly, check out some of the world materials in the Bone section.  Again,
this game is based on a game world that has thousands of pages of published
story and game material. Most people, including the writers, don’t have every
facet memorized. However, learning some basic details of the area you are from,
some commonly used slang and in-character nasty words, and learning about some
of the faiths and philosophy of the world will help you have a better time.
10

 
11
 What Style of Game is Dystopia Rising?
Dystopia Rising is a Live Action Role Playing game where you, as the player, live in the world of Dystopia Rising for a weekend. Dystopia Rising is primarily a Players versus the Environment-style game, with the primary antagonists being provided by the storytellers, game Directors, and non-player characters. That said, Dystopia Rising does not discourage player-character verses player-character actions. While the primary focus of the game design
and play is set on having the players square off against the threats of the wastelands, there are going to be times where the dynamic personalities and drives of different player-characters will result in player-characters working against each other. Player-character verses player-character activities can include,
but are not limited to, different forms of social competition, economic warfare, contact safe combat, and even player-characters causing the demise of another player-character.
    Dystopia Rising is intended to be a ‘Light Bleed’ game. ‘Bleed,’ basically
de ned, is how much of the game world bleeds out of game into your real life and
how much of your real world perceptions ‘bleed’ into the game world. Because
the setting of Dystopia Rising is of a pseudo-fantastical-science post zombie
apocalypse world, the details and subject matter of the game space can often get
very dark. Due to the sometimes grim environment in which the characters reside,
we recommend that active playing of Dystopia Rising is limited to the play space
as much as possible, and that players keep a comfortable distance between the
actions of their characters and their own psychological headspace. While more
experienced players can play more with the concept of bleed, and more concrete
emotional ties with a character, players need to understand that Dystopia Rising
is a very brutal and deadly world that can (and often does) result in the death
of a character without much in the way of warning or preparation.
    While we do not want to tell players how to have a good time, we encourage
players in the Dystopia Rising Network to keep their game activities limited
to the time between when an event starts and when that event ends. Roleplaying
as your character, politicking, handling of ‘downtime actions’, and adding
more ‘responsibility’ to your hobby of LARPing can cause a player to become
burnt out, to become overly invested in their character, and to miss out on the
fantastic social potential that this gaming community has provided.
12

     Dystopia Rising is a lightest touch contact-safe game. A term coined in
2004 to describe the con ict style of Dystopia Rising, this form of combat is
not intended to be a simulation of real world con ict situations. Erring on the
safest form of lightest touch con ict, the lightest touch contact-safe game
design allows for the adrenaline and immersion of being in a combat situation
without causing the danger and potential harm that could come from large scale
combat simulation. Without a doubt, the focus of Dystopia Rising is the role-
play and the inter-character interactions that occur due to living in this
unique game setting.
    Lastly, Dystopia Rising is intended to be an Entertainment LARP.  While
many LARPs may be used as educational tools, devices for emotional growth,
or as a means for self-de nition, we do not have these focuses in mind as
organizers of the Dystopia Rising Network. We are focused on entertaining you,
providing you with an alternative play space that exists outside our modern
world, and providing you with a community of friendly players who want to share
their passion with the outside world. While LARP can be a fantastic tool for
education, emotional exploration, and even a form of therapy, that is not the
intent of Dystopia Rising. We are a game that focuses on shared story, amazing
worlds, and entertainment. If at the end of the day we have achieved these
things, then we feel successful.

13
 Dystopia Rising Basics
If you have been to a Dystopia Rising game already, you understand that the world is a morally grey place that is trying to survive after the Fall of Mankind. If you have not been to a game as of yet, or if you are just starting to grasp the world, then this forward should help you understand the world in which you will play.
    Dystopia Rising takes place at least four generations after the fall of
mankind. No one is exactly sure how long it has been since the world became
infected with the undead and was then blasted with nuclear radiation, so the
best that the survivors have been able to do is count the number of generations
that have come before them. For the longest-lived, four generations may have
passed. For those who deal with the threats of the world, generations could
be over a dozen lifetimes passed. Written stories and tales passed by word of
mouth creates what is the remaining history of those  rst few generations of
survivors, and misinformation has clouded the tragic events of what was the
original point of impact.
    Prior to the fall, mankind did everything they could to record and share
data across the world; unfortunately, as green movements and land ll concerns
took the forefront of human focus, the shift from hard sustainable technology to
digital and virtual mediums caused a massive period of human growth to be lost.
Music released primarily on digital formats all but disappeared. Information
primarily shared via the internet and the TV was eradicated via EMP and low
level ground destruction. Generations of neglect, misunderstanding, and misuse
caused localized electronic equipment to break or fall into disuse. The love of
video game systems, digital music players, and mass media movies were all lost
due to delicate and short-lived technology. Our culture, the culture of the
modern day, became irrelevant and laughable to the next generation of survivors.
    Mankind lost most of the advancements from the mid-1990s forward, and
comforts of the modern age were replaced with tools for survival. The ancestors
of today’s survivors were the  rst strain of deviation of the human condition,
the initial contact with the mutating zombie infection, and were able to survive
the rapidly spreading epidemic. Those ancestors then taught their children,
born in a deadly world, how to survive. Those children, the  rst generation of
the new ‘strains’ of humanity, adapted to existing within this deadly new world
and in turn taught their children how to live in the ruined world. History was
not taught often; instead, survival skills such as melee combat and  rearm
maintenance was viewed as a priority. This generation reproduced and created
what would be the parents of your generation. Now barely representing humanity,
these strains of creation were newly adapted to a horri c world.
14

 This is the world in which you live. Small communities come together in a world where concepts such as ‘democracy’, ‘freedom’, and ‘government’ are newly reborn. Major cities have been all but destroyed; transit has been reduced to animals and wagons on the east coast and the occasional iron horse on the west coast. Humanity has just begun to rebuild the telegraph lines, the postmen have just begun to ride from territory to territory, and large sections of the world are still irradiated or completely overrun by the undead. Steam trains became networks of travel for the af uent and industrialized territories, while small hold-out communities hidden in the wastes worshiped strange cargo-cult gods scraped out of the irradiated soil.
    Finding a community of decent size in this world is rare;  nding one that
has any concept of ‘equality’ or ‘morality’ is rarer still. Welcome to the new
‘Wild West.’ Small towns gather, with the most powerful or in uential taking
control. Back room deals take place in broad daylight because the masses are
afraid of going against the tide. This is a place where sorrow and memories of
lost friends are drowned away in the bottom of bottles of cheap hooch. Thieves,
cutthroats, undead hordes, infected Raiders, dangerous cults, heartbreak, and
tough decisions await you. This is Dystopia, where the only promise you have in
life is that eventually it will end... and you will get back up as a zombie.
    The survivor in this nuclear wasteland has found their way to a settlement
that is the game site for most LARPs. While you may not agree with everything
that happens in town, while you may not like most of the people in town, while
you may hate the religions and broken moralities of the people in town, chances
are good that your character will continue to live in this town BECAUSE THERE
IS NO OTHER OPTION. Journeys that take us hours in the modern day take days
or weeks in the Dystopian future. Flooded waterways, lack of roads, limited
supplies, dangerous threats of survivors and undead, and lastly the cost of
making the trip makes the idea of living elsewhere and traveling to your local
game illogical. Unless you operate a trade caravan, or live in a farm on the
edge of town, the vast majority of people will live in these community centers
because it is their only good option.
    As the community grows, the questions for survivors then become:
• How do we ensure there is enough food and water for all?
• How do we prevent the outbreak of disease?
• How do we enforce laws and what laws should we have?
• Who is in charge of this compound, this town, this territory?
    All of these things are up to you, the players. We do not discourage player
to player con ict; we do not discourage changing the political structure. We do
not discourage revolution, all we do is portray the appropriate reactions and
responses from the outside world and provide stories for you to become involved
with as your character.
    This is Dystopia. The world is broken. It is up to you to pick up the pieces
and to make a new future from the remains of the old world.

15
 What is Dystopia Rising?
    Dystopia Rising is a game system that allows people to get together and
enjoy one of the oldest forms of entertainment: make believe and imagination.
To go into more detail, Dystopia Rising is a contact safe Live Action Role Playing game (or “LARP”) that takes place in a post-apocalyptic world. At a Dystopia Rising event, each guest portrays the role of a person existing in a bizarre future setting where large governments have collapsed, the nuclear bombs were dropped, and zombies are a painful (and very dangerous) reality.
“Live action” means instead of describing what your character does, you act and do the actions your persona would do. Roleplaying, much like acting, refers to taking on a  ctional persona other than your own for the duration of an event. The system we provide allows for an immersive environment where ‘what you see is what you get.’
We are a contact safe game, which means that at times not only will you be talking and acting as your persona would, but you could also become involved
in ’Contact Safe Combat,’ a term coined to describe using contact safe props to simulate combat. Instead of just sitting and saying what it is that you are doing, we invite you to do the things that your character would. The goal of these events is ‘the story.’ The same way that people get together after playing football
to talk about the highlights of the event, we strive to create an environment where you have those moments to bring home with you. Social interactions that
two characters have, complex puzzle plots, and even those moments where you are  ghting (or running screaming away from) zombies are incredible; and through these experiences, new friendships are made.
Dystopia Rising LLC is the organization that provides the environment where
you get to come make friends, play, and have epic stories to talk about later. We ask you to be safe, abide by the rules, and do the best you can to make sure that everyone around you has a fantastic experience. If all of us do these three things, then there is no limit to how amazing an event can be.
Join the Dystopia Rising community. Meet new people, have new experiences, and maybe even walk away from an event weekend a little better of a person. We are like a murder mystery wrapped together with a knitting circle and a lacrosse game in the post-apocalypse...
16

...with zombies
 Environment
    At least four generations have passed since the world of humans fell
apart. Mass media, government regulated education, mechanized production and
international commerce were all but been abandoned many decades ago. The sky
has been burned with the remnants of radioactive fallout and any rain that falls
could be poisonous to most living things.
Within a year of the  rst outbreak of the Zombie plague, most of humanity was disorganized and overrun. Turning on itself like a serpent swallowing its own tail, humanity could not survive as it was. Countries fell beneath the weight of their own undead while the mothers, sons, sisters and brothers of yesterday shambled forward as the undead nemesis of tomorrow. The electromagnetic pulse from the nuclear bombs that were used in an attempt to curtail the spread of the undead eradicated the digital tools of humanity, plunging the survivors into a new dark age.
    Small bands of humans were able to scratch out a basic existence, and
survivors banded together for shared safety. Communities formed, as small as a
single family unit or as large as a few blocks, forti ed against the threats
of the outside world. As life continued to force its way forward, the  rst
generation of the living were born into the land of the dead.
    Imagine this  rst generation, raised in a dangerous world. Literacy and
arithmetic have been traded off for munitions handling and scavenging. Youth
and a life of untroubled Saturday mornings have been exchanged for a horrifying
existence of animated corpses and radioactive storm clouds. The  rst survivors
were forged in  re, but those that were born into this world have never known
anything but the  ame. Faced with a world they could not escape, they claimed
it instead, taking on new names and Strains and leaving much of the old world
behind.
    If the  rst generation born to the fallen world blazed a path, the second
generation began to truly adapt to the world that was. The strong, the quick,
the smart, and the capable survived while others fell. Societies began to
grow, as remnants of cultures were passed by word of mouth from the remaining
survivors of the generation before. Ideals began to be pulled from the dumpsters
and social guidelines were put together out of need for structure. Running,
hiding, and surviving were no longer the only drives of society.
It was during the second generation of the infection that a form of the fungal virus (or whatever you wish to call the origins of the zombie infection, since
that knowledge was lost) mutated once more and caused a new post-mortal strain of humanity to rise: the Full Dead. These were creatures that were once human, died, and then had their  esh re-knit and reanimate; the Full Dead maintained memories of their human lives from before the Fall. With massive gaps of memory due to extended life with limited brain availability, the Full Dead stood up from their desecrated homes in Europe, and began their new un-lives. Looking to re-civilize the fallen world, the cannibalistic drives of the Full Dead caused a love/hate relationship between the new strains of humanity and the post-mortal animates. Without need
for food save for the occasional bit of humanoid  esh, the Full Dead were able to reclaim much of the more abstract knowledge that had been lost and return them to the strains of humanity.

17
 By the turn of the second generation, most of the ingenuity and creations of man were lost to the erosion of time and the relentless predation of the shambling horde. Roads began to resemble black cobbled paths, structures became the skeletal remains of a forgotten land. All that remained of the once proud culture of humanity were broken icons dotting a world aiming to both eradicate and consume the past.
Swarms of the restless dead haunted the remains of the cities, and were
drawn to the walls put up by the living as if drawn by the smell of life itself. Unrelenting despite the passing of time, the risk of being consumed by the infection grew more and more. Small bands scavenged and recovered supplies. Churches and towns were spawned, and mankind began to feed upon itself much in the same way the dead did. Slavery, raiding camps, and cannibalism became part of the reality of this second generation, as those that tried to hold onto a sense of humanity were besieged on all sides.
Now at least four generations have passed since the Fall of Mankind, and you and your ilk are born into a dangerous age. Society has just begun to be born again in this dark age of man. The starving dead hunt the land,
the virus mutated a thousand different ways since the time
of the fall, bands of the morally depraved hunt people as they
look to take supplies and slaves, and all the while the world
changes and becomes wild once again.
The story you are going to be a part of is focused on a single
town or settlement in this post-apocalyptic world. You, as a
survivor, have to  nd your place within the culture and society
that is the town. Since the focus of the world is so town speci c,
the character you play should have a reason for being a part of this town. Perhaps your character was raised in a local survival settlement? Maybe your character wants to become a trade baron, and requires the resources that a town offers? You always had the dream of opening your own bar, or craft shop, and you have come to this town looking to make your way? Could you be a religious pilgrim bringing a message of hope or damnation to this town to build a new parish? It is up to you to write a character back story and reason why your character has come to this town (see How to Write a Back Story” in the Reference section).
18

 History, “Simplified”
Piecing together the history of our renewing societies, and piecing together the events of before the fall the pre-cursor ‘humans’ has been a maddening passion for many of us high-minded individuals. While the logical mind would assume that the process of de ning the series of events would just be a simple process of dating materials in relation to our current existence, and then applying dating standards to those artifacts we  nd from prior cultures, the truth of the matter is that the entire process is much more complex.
    So please, understand that what I am discussing with you is the best theory
that I have been able to put together and should not be perceived as unarguable
fact.
    What we know, to date, is that there was a species that predated us Strains
known as the humans. Humans were a remarkable creature, with incredible power
and potential in their knowledge and technologies. We have been able to recover
a number of pre-fall journals that indicated that not only were the cultures
of the pre-fall incredibly diverse in their social and artistic senses, but
their mastery of machinery and sciences were well beyond our capacity for
comprehension.Music, artwork, a dynamic educational systems,  nancial networks,
and highly sophisticated political structures that both did and did not
intertwine with their religious culture were all part of the human civilization.
Means of communication from settlement to settlement were paramount, where
individuals not even on the same land mass were able to speak with one another
in near real time.
    In regards to all of the points I have stated so far, most of the high-
minded historians of The Hill completely agree.  We have also surmised that the
environment and resources of the prior world were much different from what we
are accustomed to living in. By our counts, the environment of our current day
and age in regards to the air, water, and soil would be considered completely
un-inhabitable by the pre-fall humans. What we consider a  ne spring day would
kill the pre-fall humans. We have also learned that many of the technologies
they outlined, at least those technologies that are not more robust, simply do
not function in our current environment.
    As many of their technologies were not designed to operate in a highly
irradiated and toxic environment, we often  nd that their more delicate
technological devices do not survive day-to-day existence in our current day.
    The historical points that come next are where many high-minded individuals
begin to vary and debate the timelines and duration of history.  What we were
able to  nd out is that at a certain point of history, society began to strive
to new highs and all-time lows. We found that technology and scienti c capacity
reached near mythical proportions, while concern for the human condition began
to erode more and more. Massive organizations and companies began to de ne what
was, and was not, acceptable for day-to-day life. Items that even we, in our
hearty states, see as incredibly toxic were allowed as staples in the diets of
the common person.  We were able to track fringe organizations and groups that,
while seen as outsiders to the world, believed in large worldwide conspiracies.

19
     These groups started to believe that hidden organizations were building
their currency on  nancial enslavement, that companies were purposely poisoning
the people and the land in the name of higher pro ts, and that massive global
warfare was engaged for  nancial means. Some believed these groups were trying
to thin the herd of humanity, to prevent the world from quickly becoming over-
populated, while ensuring that a select percentage of society would be able to
continue on.
At some point in the history of humanity, there was a watershed point where the environment drastically changed. The undead began to rise from the grave, people began to carry the infection with them, and there was widespread panic across the world. Large military groups unleashed devastating weaponry on one another in the hopes of stemming the tide of death and destruction that the endemic carried. The world, as a whole, turned on itself like Vegasians at a last thing you can eat buffet.
    Humans of a territory called America swarmed to invade cultures to the
north and south of them, attempting to  nd solace and safety in a place not yet
touched by the plague. Settlements across Europe locked themselves down, not
allowing travel into or out of the territories. Smaller countries, separated
from mainland by straits of water, locked themselves down and tried to push
back the tide of death and undeath that was spreading across the waking world.
Despite their best efforts, though, the plague did eventually spread to nearly
all known places (we’re still investigating that).
20

     Communication and record become scarce as this horri c scenario continued.
We can estimate that massive destructive devices were used to scar the sky,
destroy the ground, and render the more fragile technologies of humanity inert.
Over many, many years the world became the toxic environment that we now know.
    There are two last points that need consideration and review in regards to
our confusion of historic events, and those two points are the duration of the
fall and what we now refer to as the ‘Infernal Pastry.’
    The  rst point that needs consideration is that we are unsure how long
humanity attempted to continue to hold on. During the time period when the vast
majority of the humans were eradicated due to what we have deemed ‘unnatural
selection,’ record keeping becomes much more dif cult to  nd. The rare
documentations that we do  nd have proven dif cult to determine their age. Our
scienti c tools and capacities nowhere match the creations of the Humans, and
with that, our comprehension of science and complex tools are liken to that of a
simple Gun Chimp  guring out how to pull a trigger.
    We’ve been able to  gure out that our modern maps drastically vary from the
maps created by the humans, but we can’t even account for the changes in pitch
of topography. By our estimates, much more of the world should be well beneath
the water than it is, and most of the land that does exist should be aligned
differently.  To the best of our knowledge there very well could be hundreds of
years of elapsed time during what is commonly known as the fall of humanity,
and the rise of the  rst Strains. We simply do not know, primarily due to our
technologies as well as a circumstance later outlined as the Infernal Pastry.
    Beyond that, we do not have a history of events of the fall of Humans as
the dominant species that we could use to reference as an aging technique.  Even
Humans had multiple different forms of telling how many seasons had come and
gone, and to date we have not been able to  nd a cross reference of year keeping
records that all have ‘everything went to shit’ circled on one day.  Even if we
did have a clear history of events, and somehow had the technology to date the
more modern objects, we still have to deal with the rapid incline and decline
of the environment over historic events that would accelerate or decelerate the
means of calculation the duration of time.
    The other point that frustrates the intellectual community is a rarely
repeated, and yet still routinely documented, occurrence we now refer to as the
‘Infernal Pastry.’  Instances of the Infernal Pastry do not always involve a
baked culinary delight, however; the  rst recorded instance of this particular
event did actually involve a Merican and a spongy cream  lled pastry cake.
    As the story of the Infernal Pastry goes, a scientist was sitting at a
bar bemoaning his existence when a Merican walked in with a bag under his arm.
Looking over at the bag, the scientist vaguely noted that the Merican was
taking food items out of the bag to consume. The Merican got a look of near-
religious glee on his face, when he slowly took out an individually wrapped
pre-fall pastry cake. Looking at the pastry cake for many minutes, the scientist
quickly bought the cake from the Merican (as I remember, the cost was ten
bottles of hooch) and then quickly brought the pastry cake to The Hill in The
Mass. Bringing a large number of their associates together they discovered that
the pastry in question was, without a doubt, a pre-fall pastry that was for
some reason still in edible condition. Even the wrapper for the foodstuff was
in reasonably good condition, outlining strange chemical combinations for the
content of the food.

21
     The spongy dessert was not the only ‘Infernal Pastry’ instance. A number
of audio recording devices, human Telling Visions artifacts, strange world
comforts, and even delicate clothes have been found. While these objects are
without a doubt incredibly rare (and often forcibly scooped up by scienti c and
historic community), for some reason they do exist. With the point of reference
of this anomaly, we began investigating many old world reliquaries that for
various reasons should no longer exist. We estimate that in the time that has
passed since the crafting of the Old York and Under Sea structures, nearly none
of them should still be standing.  The natural wear and tear, environmental
conditions, and use should have caused these objects to fall apart a long time
ago.
          These temporal anomalies, combined with what little  rsthand knowledge
we have of our history, have left our scienti c communities in a clutch.  Some
theorize that there is a portion of the brain that allows for the perception
of the passage of time, and that somehow the Grave Mind and the Infection has
latched into that portion of the brain. This would explain why many undead chew
on the brain stems, as well as why the skill commonly known as ‘Double Tapping’
is an ef cient technique to ensure that reanimating dead do not get back up.
Another theory speculates that the concept of time is directly affected by some
degree of increased gravitational pull that  uctuates based on the continued
movement of this ruined planet. This theory would explain the reason why the
average temperature of the planet is in a much higher extreme swing than what
was historically recorded, as well as why there is a steady and constant
increase in the emitted radiation levels of our environment.  Some people say
it is some form of psionic nonsense. The psionic focused people are to be
considered stupid and should never be allowed into a place of higher learning
again.
    So as I  nish these notes I  nd myself at a bit of a loss. We don’t know
how long Humans hung on, trying to cling as the dominant species of the world.
All we know is that the world fell apart, and that we can account for at least
four generations passing since the  nal fall of Humans. If I were to mark the
time that the last humans were reduced to nothing more than handfuls of encased
survivors, we can estimate that the Strains have existed for only an estimate
of 200 to 300 years. At least we get to accept that the world was indeed ruined
before we got here, and for some reason, I am staring at a god-damned human made
pastry.
22

-Doctor W.S. Phineas
 What You Will Find in the World of Dystopia Rising
In the world of Dystopia Rising, the settings material (the world description) is outlined expansively in the table top source materials for this game world. As you read these materials you will learn more and more about the kinds of creatures, cultures, and environments that you will encounter in the Dystopia Rising universe. As the books outline and detail the world in greater and greater detail, more and more information becomes available to the players.
    While this information answers thousands of questions, it will always leave
‘dark areas’ in the world as a whole. With all of the efforts made in the table
top books to explain what you can and will  nd in the world of Dystopia Rising,
it is impossible to outline all of the things that you will  nd in the universe.
That being said, a basic list and guideline has been provided below to help you
understand what things you should and should not see out in the world of the
Dystopia Rising Universe.
What You Will See
Mutations
    Animal and plant life has mutated drastically since the fall of humanity.
Many thousands of strange plants and animals exist based on evolutions and
mutations of real world modern creatures. Monster-like animals, strange mutant
beasts, and deadly organic threats may be hunting you.
Psionic Illusions
    Psionic manifestations can delude a person’s visual perception; however,
they cannot actually change ‘mass reality.’ When a Psionic Illusion occurs,
it is an individual (living or dead) exerting itself with a limited scope and
capacity. Psionic Illusions are extremely rare, and an individual would be lucky
(or unlucky) to see a Psionic Illusion/Projection once in their lifetime.
Pseudo Science and Pseudo Medicine
    We know that most forms of radiation are blue shift and not a green glowing
object. We know that medical procedures should require speci c tools to prevent
infection. We know that in the real world fermenting brews takes much longer.
We know that giving birth does not involve shooting three gallons of fake blood
from a pressure hose. We also know that a world such as Dystopia Rising bene ts
from accessing simpli ed concepts and general ideas of science and medicine
instead of digging into strict simulation of science and medicine. Keeping to
simpli ed Pseudo science and medicine allows players to achieve things beyond
their own capacity without reaching too far into the realm of ‘fantasy’ instead
of ‘science  ction.’

23
 Raiders
    Living humanoids that might as well be zombies, Raiders are a form of
individual that have transcended the realms of logic and compassion and are
killing machines. Raider clan tribes are not funny, but instead are horrible
threats to the living.
Strains
    Living forms of people that carry a sentience and a will to live.  The
Strains are the different breeds of what is left of humanity.
Zombies
    Undead creatures with thousands of varieties that have adapted with
different feeding functions and needs.
What You Will Not See
‘Mythical’ or ‘Supernatural’ Creatures other than Zombies
    Ghosts, werewolves, creatures of fantasy, and other forms of supernatural
creatures that are commonplace in movies, books, and literature do not exist
in the Dystopia Rising universe. While there are mutations and the like in
the world, it is outside of genre and world materials to venture so far into
other movie and book tropes. If a non-player character ever comes out as a
supernatural creature like a ghost, the NPC should have a reasonable and
rational explanation (like an old man with a mask) that exists within the
world, instead of reaching for supernatural items outside of the games source
materials.
Rituals, Curses, or Magic
    Psionics is a limited form of mental capacity to change the world, and
outside the majorly impressive items that psions or priests can do, you will
not see other forms of ‘paranormal activity’ that you would not  nd outlined
within the rules of the Dystopia Rising LARP book or the Dystopia Rising table
top universe.  Even effects of prayer or religious activities are more similar
to psionic-type effects than any form of magic. This means that items such as
curses, hexes, spells, or rituals do not exist in the world. While priests and
religions may believe any sort of superstition and folklore, truly mechanical,
world-changing effects solely due to the workings of faith do not exist.
Functioning High Technology
    Most post-1990s technology does not survive well in an environment of high
radiation, high threat, and little upkeep. Think of most technological items
that you have currently, and think of how quickly these items die out. Computers
die without living in a world of dust and microwave-grade radiation, MP3 players
break without being caught in a  ght against hundreds of undead, and most
circuits were fried ages ago.  Items that make your life easier, unless they are
robust technologies, probably would not survive in the Dystopia Rising universe.
For ease of reference, consider the technology of the industrial revolution
(1760s-1840s) as commonplace. Players and staff should consider the technology
of second industrial revolution (technological revolution of the 1860s to early
1920s) as existing, but primarily in major settlements and higher technology
areas.
24

     Players and staff should consider technology from the 1920s to the 1980s
incredibly rare and to be considered rare and unique gifts to be relished
and protected like gold, with most of the technology from the 1970s and the
1980s completely lost in all forms, save for occasional word of mouth and
written reference. Most technology from the 1990 and 2000 period is not robust
technology, and would not survive the time and duration of the fall of man
intact.

25
 The Player
A Community of Trust
Community is a readily occurring subject matter when it comes to the Dystopia Rising Network. There are many reasons why ‘community’ is so greatly discussed, but the reason above all others is a very obvious fact. We are a group of people who come together from all walks of life to enjoy a single hobby. That hobby, Live Action Role Playing, is a social event not completely unlike being a member of
a sports team or being a part of a local community organization. As a group, we come together to share our love and passion of a particular hobby with friends and strangers.
    The community that revolves around a LARP organization is something that
often occurs organically, without any focus or molding. While this complete
freedom allows for some life-long bonds to be made within the community, without
any form of oversight it also allows for negative behaviors to go unchecked.
    While we, as a Game Network, have absolutely no interest in telling our
player base how to act when they are not acting within the community, we have a
great interest in ensuring that our community is one of positive reinforcement
and healthy growth. We want to promote a community where everyone is treated
equally, where everyone is given the respect they deserve, and where everyone
can feel at home. We want a community that is understanding, compassionate, and
welcoming.
    We want a community that stays with you even if you decide that gaming is
not for you.
    To do this, we need to build a community of trust. Trust, as a concept, is
something that is often dif cult to earn and impossible to repair. We understand
that in the endeavor of creating a community of trust, we cannot expect a 100%
success rate. However, by keeping to some general guidelines we hope that the
overall positive growth and community that comes from our efforts will outweigh
the bad.
    On occasion, people step outside the guidelines of what is acceptable
within a trusting community. Sometimes this happens by mistake, and is easily
recti ed, and other times people are just not the right sort of  t for the kind
of community we are looking for. Cheating, abusive or threatening behavior,
disregard for the well-being or involvement of others—these sorts of actions are
things that we, as a community, cannot correct without the willingness of those
who partake in these actions.
    What we have done is constructed a series of community guidelines that are
outlined when a community member purchases a membership. We have also provided a
series of player protocols that we all follow.  For the sake of full disclosure,
we provide a list of all of the steps that local Directors and network
organizers may take in the instance that someone chooses not to follow these
guidelines and protocols, but we hope to not have to use them.
26

 Community Standards
    We are a gaming community. Like many other communities we have a set of
guidelines that we adhere to. While many community standard outlines would enter
very strict legal terminology, instead we here at Dystopia Rising LARP prefer to
approach this as more of a philosophy. The philosophy, as a whole, can be summed
up in some very simple points.
EVERYONE IS EQUAL
    Dystopia Rising LARP has no such thing as seniority. Every game in the
entire network is  lled with players who all have the same worth. With this in
mind, players that are brand new to gaming are just as important as players who
have gamed since the  rst dice were carved out of woolly mammoth bone. There is
no pulling rank, there is no treating anyone else as second class players, and
there is no preference given between players. Regardless of a person’s history
inside and outside the gaming world of Dystopia Rising LARP, everyone is the
same. Everyone should be treated with kindness and respect.
LEAVE REAL WORLD PROBLEMS IN THE REAL WORLD
    Dystopia Rising LARP is a gaming community that networks between thousands
of players. With this in mind, there is no doubt that at any time one of the
players is having a bad day. That bad day may happen while a game weekend is
going on; that bad day may happen between events; or that bad day may be only a
few moments in an otherwise good day. Regardless of when a bad day happens, bad
day events and negativity related to the real world are left at the door before
coming into a Dystopia Rising LARP event. Dystopia Rising LARP is a drama-free
location, where we want to provide a gaming environment that everyone can enjoy.
    If you  nd yourself wrapped up in some negativity, or unable to release
issues that are happening, we recommend that you take some time to address
the real world issues and real world problems instead of dragging them into
game. Dystopia Rising LARP is a drama-free zone, which is an environment
actively cultivated by the staff of each game. If you need time away from game
to take care of your real world issues, by all means take that time. We will be
here when you get back.
GAMING IS A HOBBY, COMMUNITY IS A REALITY
    Dystopia Rising LARP is a game. The game is a vehicle to provide a community
of supportive, friendly, and outgoing people. Our community is focused on
ensuring that everyone is treated fairly and equally, that we provide the tools
for great communities to grow, and that we take advantage of our organized hobby
to try and do some good in the world. Dystopia Rising LARP supports charities
both at home and abroad all year round. Each individual game-business in the
Dystopia Rising LARP network supports organizations from local, community-
focused charities all the way up to international charities.
    Remember, we are allowed the privilege of being able to come together as a
community to enjoy our hobby. There are other people in this world who can have
their lives improved forever with our efforts. Let’s play together and let’s
work together to make things better.

27
 WE ARE ALL IN THIS TOGETHER
    Dystopia Rising is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for
everyone, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, disability, physical
appearance, body size, race, or religion. We do not tolerate harassment of
event participants in any form. Dystopia Rising is committed to maintaining
a diverse community in an atmosphere of mutual respect and appreciation of
differences. Dystopia Rising does not discriminate on the bases of race, color,
creed, religion, national/ethnic origin, sex, sexual orientation, or age. With
this in mind, the Dystopia Rising LARP network requires its members to abide by
a set player protocol at Dystopia Rising LARP (social or game) events.
    Details of our player protocols are outlined before buying a Dystopia Rising
LARP membership, and are summarized in the Dystopia Rising LARP rulebook.
    If we all treat each other with the respect that we ourselves would want to
be treated with, you will  nd that others will provide you with the respect that
you show them
28

 Player Protocols
Voice Your Concerns
If you strongly believe that someone is violating the rules of play, or is acting inappropriately out-of-game, do not confront that person yourself, but please inform a Staff Member as soon as possible. If we are informed quickly,
it is easier for us to accurately review the situation and decide what actions (if any) need to take place. In addition, if you witness a dangerous situation
or know that one has occurred, for everyone’s safety please inform Staff Members i m m e d i a t e l y.
Rules Misuse and Cheating
    Any abuse of the rules that is viewed by a Staff Member to be egregious
or beyond repair—for example, using a Skill to do something outside the rules
as written—can result in a reprimand. Blatant cheating by ignoring successful
strikes, forgery of in-game currency or items, and/or overspending points may
result in a reprimand or being asked to leave the event without reimbursement.
Unsportsmanlike Conduct
    Arguing with a Staff Member, being verbally or physically abusive to a
fellow player or Staff Member on an out-of-character level, or other forms of
misconduct that breach the goal of getting together to have fun will not be
tolerated. Acting in such a way may warrant a reprimand or even result in being
asked to never return.
Harassment Policy
    Dystopia Rising is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience
for everyone, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, disability, physical
appearance, body size, race, or religion. We do not tolerate harassment of event
participants in any form. If a participant engages in harassing another, the
event organizers may take any action they deem appropriate, including: warning
the offender, expulsion from the event (with no refund), or being banned from
future events. If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being
harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact a member of the Dystopia
Rising Staff immediately.
    Harassment includes offensive verbal comments related to gender, sexual
orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, religion,
etc. It also includes displaying sexual images in public spaces, deliberate
intimidation, stalking, following, harassing photography or recording, sustained
disruption of events, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual
attention. Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to
comply immediately.

29
 Cleaning Up
    Every Dystopia Rising player has a responsibility to clean up his or
her sleeping area at the end of an event, as well as clean up a general area
assigned by the event coordinator. After ful lling this obligation, you must
have your character sheets signed off by a Staff Member who will review both
your sleeping area and your assigned clean-up area. Failure to complete a clean-
up assignment will result in a reprimand as well as no Experience Points being
gained for that event.
NPC Duty
    Every Dystopia Rising player has an obligation to complete a NPC time slot.
At Check In, each player will sign up for a time slot on an as-available basis;
each slot has a limited number of available spaces, assigned on a  rst-come
 rst-serve basis, and it is the player’s responsibility for reporting to NPC
duty at said time. For their NPC shift, the player will report to Logistics in
clothing other than what their character wears, suited for costuming (black
jeans and basic tops recommended). At completion of this NPC duty, the player
is responsible for ensuring that the Staff Member running Logistics during
their shift signs off on their character sheet to indicate that their NPC duty
has been ful lled. Failure to sign up for, or to complete, your assigned NPC
shift will result in no character growth to be approved for that event weekend,
and the player may be reprimanded. Players must ensure that they turn in their
character sheet at the end of each event. Failure to turn in sheets will result
in no growth points being awarded and no new Skills being learned.
At Dystopia Rising we have a saying, and that saying is ‘Everybody Shambles.’ This concept means many different things. It means that every person is treated equally, that we all help out to make the community better, that there is no ‘senior position,’ and that every person eventually does both high concept and basic shamble NPC roles.
Photography and Video
    If players wish to photograph or record at a Dystopia Rising event, we do
allow this to occur within the following guidelines:
    • You are responsible for ensuring the safety of your own equipment.
    Dystopia Rising LLC and persons attending Dystopia Rising events will not be
    held liable for damages or the replacement value of your equipment if your
    equipment is lost, stolen, or damaged.
    • Images taken at Dystopia Rising events are property of Dystopia Rising
    LLC and require written permission from Dystopia Rising LLC for resale or
    publishing.
    • Images, video, or audio recordings from Dystopia Rising events may only
    be used in a constructive and positive means. Use of video, images, or
    audio recordings from Dystopia Rising events which depict Dystopia Rising
    or any of its participants in a negative, harassing, or otherwise derogatory
    context is not allowed.
    • Permission has been given by the Directors of the game you are attending
    for you to take pictures or video during an event.
30

 Alcohol
    Alcoholic beverages are not allowed at Dystopia Rising events. This alcohol
ban includes bringing alcoholic beverages on site, storing alcoholic beverages
in vehicles parked on event grounds, and/or coming to a Dystopia Rising event
under the in uence of alcohol. Breach of this rule will result in a minimum of
a six-month suspension or possibly a permanent ban from all Dystopia Rising
events.
Smoking
    Smoking is permitted for adults over the legal smoking age. Smoking must be
done outside of buildings. If you are a smoker, you must carry your ID on you,
because you might be asked to produce proof of your age. If a Staff Member asks
to see ID as proof of age and you cannot provide one, you will be asked to stop
smoking immediately and your age will need to be veri ed quickly afterwards to
resolve the matter. Underage smoking will not be tolerated. Any youth player who
is found smoking will be reprimanded and his or her parents will be noti ed.
Smoking is not allowed during combat. Cigarette butts must be  eld stripped and
then disposed of in a proper garbage receptacle.

31
 Drugs and Violence
    The possession of, use of, or being under the in uence of illegal drugs will
immediately result in the persons involved being removed from the event grounds
and being turned over to the authorities. Real life violence, real life threats,
or activities which pose a real life danger to self or others will result in the
person(s) involved being removed from the event as well as being turned over to
the authorities.
Real Life Weapons
        Real weapons are not allowed at Dystopia Rising Network events. Players
are expected to apply a degree of common sense in regards to the de nition of a
real weapon (combat knife verses steak knife). At no point are  rearms of any
sort allowed at Dystopia Rising Network event property.
Item Sales and Transactions
    Any in-character transactions, sales, or trade must happen with in-character
funds and items. At no point may real world monies be offered in exchange for
goods or services within the in-character aspect of a Dystopia Rising event
(teaching, in-character items, or services rendered from one character to
another). Vendors who wish to sell items at a Dystopia Rising event, such as
physical props, may do so only if they are capable of selling the item in-
character as well. At no point may real world funds be given to cause in-
character activities. Characters wishing to sell items for in-character funds
must have means of producing an Item Card for the items they are selling (food,
armor, etc.)
Contact Safety Check
    At Check In, each player must have their contact safe weapons checked by our
safety and security Staff Member. If a contact safe weapon does not pass safety
standards, or an item becomes damaged during the duration of the event, the item
must be removed from event site until it is able to pass a safety check. Each
player is responsible for ensuring the continued safety of their contact safe
weapons, equipment, and costume. Players are urged to properly maintain their
weapons—passing once doesn’t guarantee it will pass again, as use may wear a
formerly safe weapon to an unsafe level.
Signing In / Check In
    When arriving at the site, all guests are required to settle all game costs
as soon as possible, at which point every guest will sign up for a NPC shift
and receive their character sheets. The last portion of this process involves
reviewing policies for Dystopia Rising events, and agreeing to these policies.
These policies include the personal conduct code, liability waver forms, and
consent forms for minors.
Character Sheets
    Once a player has checked into a weekend event, the player must carry their
character sheet on them at all times, including NPC time. If at any point a
player loses track of their character sheet, that player must report this loss
to Logistics. On the back of each character sheet is a ledger that must be
 lled out after using Skills, consumption of potions, or other expenditures of
Mind Points. When using an effect to aid another person, that person must have
that Skill effect  lled out on the back of their sheet. In the middle of a busy
module, a sheet update immediately follows that module before any of the players
leave the area.
32

 Item Cards
Certain items have mechanical effects on the world, and require an Item Card to be allowed into game. Some of these items are weapons, armor, Scrap, Herbs, Brews, and tech devices. A player may not have a Physical Representation for one of these items without having the appropriate card for this item. Item Cards
must be signed by a Staff Member, and it is the responsibility of the player to hold onto these cards between events. In the event that an Item Card is lost by a player, it will not be replaced and the item is considered lost.
    Item Cards must be signed by the appropriate level staff member, and all
Item Cards must be presented when checking into a travel game. In the instance
that you receive an Item Card from outside of your local game, that Item Card
must be shown to your staff members for approval.
    All unique Item Cards, unique blueprints, and items that are not provided
mechanics for by existing, approved mechanics must be signed by the director of
the game issuing the card. Unique Item Cards that do not have network-approved
mechanics must have expiration dates no more than six months, and may be removed
for approval review by any local story teller or director that sees an abuse of
these items occurring in game.
Destroyed and Damaged Items
    Items that are single use items that are used (such as a Brew), must have
that Item Card ripped in half to receive the effects. Herbs and Scrap must
be turned into Logistics to be used to create new Item Cards, or improving
on existing items. Blueprints, Credits, and certain plot-related items have
physical representations that must be held onto in order to maintain ownership
of this item. If an item has had a ‘Destroy’ skill used on it, it may be patched
or repaired with the appropriate skill. If an item has simply been used up,
then single use items must be either torn up or discarded. Repair must be used
on armor, and neither the Repair nor the Patch Job skill will ever replenish
expended item uses.

33
 When Corrective Actions Are Needed
No staff member wants to perform a corrective action. When a staff member is forced into a situation where they implement a corrective action, it is often due to the fact that either they feel they have no other option, or a situation is a symptom of a larger problem. Staff members would rather spend their time enjoying the shared hobby of LARPing.
That being said, there are times where for the safety, fairness, and health of our community, a staff member needs to implement a corrective action.
Corrective actions are tools meant just as they are written: actions that are taken with the hopes of correcting a situation. They are not intended to be a form of punishment, or an action that is taken as a means to cause a player to have less of an enjoyable experience. Corrective actions are steps that are taken when the fair play, positive community, safety, social wellbeing, or legality of actions an individual is taking is in question.
Corrective actions are recorded on a player’s character sheet. Initial warnings issued to players are recorded by the Directors of the branch at which a player’s primary character is based. In the instance that a corrective action involves a player being banned from a local branch, the Directors of that branch must record this action with the greater Dystopia Rising LARP Network overseers.
In the instance that an action is particularly grievous, an individual may be banned from total Network play by the parent network.
No one wants to use corrective actions, and in the instance that they are being applied, more times than not it is due to the fact that the individuals involved have left no other option for the Staff Members involved.
Corrective Actions are not to be used as a form of correction in regards to breaches of the law. In the instance that individuals break the law at a Dystopia Rising event, those individuals will be immediately turned over to the local authorities. The Dystopia Rising network is not a place, or an authority, to register punitive actions on individuals that break the law. With this in mind, all instances of illegal activities are reported to the legal authorities.
Corrective Actions
If a player is found breaking the rules, falling out-of-character, or acting
in a way that is not appropriate for our settings in the Dystopia Rising world,
a Marshal or Staff Member may give a warning in regards to the situation at hand. Marshals may also recommend further actions to be taken if a violation of the rules or environment is so severe that immediate corrective actions need to be taken. These recommendations are reviewed by the game Directors and will be acted upon appropriately.
34

 Verbal Warning
Verbal warnings are not a corrective action, as much as they are the responsibility of every Staff Member. Verbal warnings are not issued for instances where rules or community standards are clearly breached, but instead are given as a form of correcting misunderstandings. Often, a Verbal Warning is all that is needed to correct the issue.
Player Warning
A player warning is given for  rst time offenders as well as players who may have broken the rules without malicious intent. A warning means that for the next three months, any further actions that would result in a warning result in a more severe form of correction. Player warnings are recorded on the player’s character sheet, and are recorded by the local branch. Multiple occurrences of Player Warnings result in a Rules Violation.
Genre Violation
Players routinely asked to return in character or to put out-of-character/non- genre appropriate items away may receive a Genre Violation. Players that receive
a Genre Violation are recorded on the character database for three (3) months. Players with genre violations active in their database may not act as Marshals or Storytellers during the three-month period in which the violations are on  le, and any further Genre Violations beyond the  rst will result in a Rules Violation.
Rules Violation
If a character is found misusing a Skill, using a Skill they do not possess, violating safety guidelines, or breaching our good sportsmanship guidelines, that player may be given a Rules Violation. If a violation is given, each violation results in two Experience Points being docked from a character sheet. Rules Violations are recorded on the character database for three months. Players with Rules Violations active in their database may not act as Marshals or Storytellers during the three-month period in which the violation is on  le.
Suspension
    If a player has breached the rules or safety of the game so much so that
they must be asked to leave game, this may only be done by the Directors of
Dystopia Rising. Players that are suspended are suspended from all forum use
and all attendance to Dystopia Events. No Build or Assistance Points may be
purchased or earned during this period of time. It is up to the discretion of
the Directors of the branch to remove any or all earned Assistance Points in
addition to this suspension. Events that occur during the player’s suspension
may not be bought back by that player. The minimum length of a suspension is
six months and the maximum is inde nitely. For the period of one year after
the suspension, the player may not be approved for any Restricted characters,
backgrounds or Advanced Professions. Players with a suspension on their player
info may not as a Marshal or Storyteller during the six months immediately
following the end of their suspension.

35
 Banned
    In the instance that a player will not correct their actions, acts in a
 agrant disregard for rules, or acts in a way that endangers the community, a
Director may opt to Ban a player from future play. All build earned or purchased
is forfeit, all characters removed from play, item cards and currency are to
be destroyed or returned, and all Assistance Points are considered void. When
a Director chooses to Ban a member from their local branch, the Director must
register the Ban and the reason for the Ban with the Regional Network. In the
instance that the individual may be seen as a threat or issue to the community,
that individual may be further banned from the Network as a whole.
36

 Attending Your First Event
It is our intent to try and make a player’s  rst event as easy, fun, and welcoming as possible. With this in mind, we try to remove as many of the barriers as possible for you to enter game. There are only a handful of items that a new player absolutely has to take care of themselves, a few items we can help you with, and a couple of items that our Staff Members will gladly assist you with.
It’s our intention to try and make our game as streamlined and enjoyable as possible. At times you may  nd yourself unsure of how a mechanic or process works. While we are providing all of the materials possible here for your review prior to attending an event, we also have Staff Members at every branch event who will ensure that your introduction to LARPing is as simple as possible.
However, we need you to help us assist you. There may be times when a Staff Member assumes that you have a greater degree of experience and knowledge than you do. There may be times when a Staff Member uses terminology that you do not understand. While our Staff Members will make every effort to use the simplest language possible, please do not hesitate to ask questions or to look for clari cation when needed.
If you  nd yourself having a dif cult time getting involved in the game, do not hesitate to stop into Logistics and let them know this; our Staff Members will work with you to try and bring you into the game world we love. Staff members will work to try and link you with new players to role play with, goals to work towards, and even hook you into modules that are going out.
That being said, we can only assist you—not provide the experience for you. Dystopia Rising, like most LARPS, is a pastime where you only get as much out of the game as you put into the game. Being willing to portray your character, living in the moment, and enjoying the little shared interactions is key for LARPing. Try to stay in character, look to always leave communication opportunities open with other players, and share your gaming experience with others instead of trying to keep it all to yourself. LARPing is a social hobby that we do with other people that enjoy the LARP, so go out and be social.
In the end, we are all gamers and geeks and nerds at a Dystopia Rising event.
No one is better, no one is ‘more senior,’ and no one player is more important than another. We all share the hobby with one another, and as long as you try to share with others and be a part of their story- they will try to be a part of yours.

37
 The Membership Program
The Membership Program allows players of different expendable incomes to have the same game experience while allowing those that can, and are willing, to help their local branch out by paying for their own membership. As a thank you for helping your local branch grow and thrive, players that choose to pay for their own Advanced Membership are provided a couple of fantastic rewards for doing so.
    Details in regards to membership eligibility, terms of membership service,
and overall processing of the Dystopia Rising Network membership can be found on
the Dystopia Rising Network home page.
How It Works
Established players are required to have a yearly membership. There are two membership options available, Basic and Advanced.
    New players have a three-event trial period to test the gaming waters. After
three months, they will be required to have a membership.
Option 1: Basic Membership
    Players will automatically be awarded a Basic Membership once they attend
their fourth event. This membership will be active for a six month period. This
membership will automatically renew at the  rst event they attend after the six
months passes.
    If a player takes this option, they may have up to two characters (their
“Primary” and “Alternate” characters), and must have both of their characters
based in their home game and cannot transfer to another branch until the year
membership expires (special circumstances will, of course, be considered).
    This allows for the same ability to play, earn build, travel etc. as every
person already enjoys. This costs the player nothing.
Option 2: Advanced Membership
    Advanced Membership is purchased by the player through the Dystopia Rising
Network home page.
    You will be awarded two build on each of your characters upon purchase (a
$60 value, see below). This two build will be awarded to each of your active
characters in the month that you purchase the membership. These experience
points are not re-awarded in the instance of character death, retirement, or the
generation of a new character.
    With an Advanced Membership, you have the option of having your characters
based in different games, as you choose. The standard six-month waiting period
of transfer is all that applies.
38

     A player with an Advanced Membership will be allowed to have a third
active character in the system! This third character falls under all the same
guidelines, build structure and play ability as any other character. They can
be registered for events and earn XP with your other characters.  However, you
will only be able to portray, learn Skills, and get Check In Skills for two
characters at any given game.
        A player with an Advanced Membership will have access to an online
database where they can view their character sheet, build log and player
information once available. Additional features for this are regularly being
added, so be sure to keep up to date with us on social media.

39
 Getting Ready for the Event
Event Logistics
Once you have arrived at your local event, you will need to go to your local events Logistics center. Logistics serves as the Out-of-Game Headquarters for the event’s operations, and will be important for you to become familiar with.
At the beginning of each event, you will Check In at Logistics to pay for your characters, use Check In Skills, and receive Item Cards and tags for weapons and armor that have been safety checked. You will also need to report to Logistics for your required NPC shift. During the event, Logistics is where you can  nd Marshals and Storytellers on duty to answer questions and adjudicate con icts. Logistics will be where you report for all in-game crafting, theft, or research. Finally, Logistics is where you will typically  nd a local game’s lost and
found, medical kit, and any other out-of-game resources the local event has made available.
Getting Checked In
    Checking in can be a swift process if you prepare yourself.  Below is a
guideline of everything you can do before you Check In to speed things up,
everything you need to get taken care of during the Check In process, and things
to ask your local game about your  rst few events.
Items that a player needs to take care of themselves
before an event
1) Review and sign your waiver, release, and safety forms. Individual
branches provide these forms on their branch’s web pages.  These forms are also
available at either the new player Check In, or Logistics location of a game
site. Generally, you will need to sign a waiver when you attend your  rst event
and then again once each year.
2) If you are under 18 years of age, you need to have a parental release form signed by a parent or legal guardian. Under the age of 16 is standardly not allowed at a Dystopia Rising event, however, individual branches may make a case by case decision in the instance that the child (between the ages of 14 and 16) is accompanied to the event with a legal guardian. Branches will require the parent or legal guardian to actively attend to the minor at all times.
3) Review the community standards for the Dystopia Rising Network. It is best to understand what we are looking for in our community as well as understanding what event organizers will expect of you.
4) Review the rulebook with particular focus on the areas of mechanical interaction, contact safe simulated combat, and read through the generalized world materials. Review character creation and think about the kind of character you want to play. Character creation, for more seasoned LARPers, is a simple process. If you feel up to generating your character, go ahead and give it a
40

 shot.  If you are unsure, don’t worry. There will be staff and players willing
to help you design your character at the event.
5) Gather the basic food, water, clothes, sleeping supplies, contact safe weapons, foam darts, packets, and materials you will need to camp and play for a weekend. On your  rst few outings it is better to bring too much than too little.
6) Go the Dystopia Rising Network web page, and review the images and information provided there. You will also want to visit your local branch’s web page to  nd out speci c details about your local game world. In addition, most branches should have a forum that you can log into to get your questions answered.
Items you need to take care of when you get to the event 1) Turn in your signed paperwork, waiver, release form, and medical notes
to Logistics. If you arrived at the event before Logistics has opened, ask the
staff members where you can set up your sleeping supplies for the weekend. Many
branches have new player staff that will help you get situation.
2) If you are a new player, have your new character sheet reviewed by staff members to make sure the concept, mechanics, and design of your character are correct.
3) Pay for your event and receive your character sheets. If you are paying and registering a secondary character as
well, be sure to have your secondary character’s character sheet reviewed
by staff members to make sure the
concept, mechanics, and design of the
character are correct.  Registering
a second character for an event
allows you to swap twice between
your characters.  This means
that if you start as character 1,
and decide to change at one point over to
character 2, you may choose to change back
to character 1 before the end of the game.
Once you stop playing character 2, you cannot
go back to character 2. Please also note
rules for staying in-character in relation to
Character verses Character actions as well.
4) Sign up for a non-player character shift. All players do a four-hour NPC shift over the duration of the weekend
or a two-hour shift if they’re only attending a 24-hour period.
5) Sign up for your clean up shift.
All players help clean up the site on Sunday after closing announcements to make sure they leave the site better than they found it. If you must leave the event early, you must speak with a staff member to get an alternative clean up assignment before
you leave site.

41
 6) Have any contact safe weapons checked by a safety Marshal and tagged with your character number.
7) Receive item cards for starter equipment and use any Check In Skills your character may have.
8) Attend New Player Training. Before each event we provide combat training, basic world details, and new player introduction. We welcome players to attend this session during their  rst three events for an opportunity to ask questions and become more comfortable with the game’s mechanics and world.
9) Identify at least a handful of the Marshals and staff members at game. Staff members often times wear buttons that identify them as staff members, but recognizing their faces before the light goes down is important. These people will be able to answer questions and help make your  rst event more enjoyable.
Items you should look into once at game
1) Most branches have special modules, programs, and steps they take to help
players enjoy their  rst day at game. Ask new player staff representatives when
new player modules or what new player programs each branch currently has.
2) Attend Opening Announcements. Before each event we address the whole
of the game, talking about community events, charity drives, rules and safety announcements, as well as generally give everyone a proper welcome to the event. This is a great opportunity to see all the faces of your local branch.
3) Find out when and where Closing Announcements take place to be sure you don’t miss them at the end of the event. Closing announcements often include announcements about social gatherings, special events, and upcoming games.
42

 Item Cards and Your Equipment
Item Cards are miniature sheets that explain the mechanics and important details of an item. The majority of item cards exist for items that require mechanics, affect the game world, or have some sort of mechanical design. Item Cards are also issued to non-mechanics based items that may be stolen or sold for in-game currency.
    Item Cards are produced by Logistics when Scrounge cards are turned in,
items are chopped for Scrap, resource producing skills are used, or items are
crafted. Item Cards may also enter play along with Physical Representations and
props via non-player characters. Many times, Item Cards are given to NPCs for
loot-able materials so that the NPCs can hold onto the Physical Representations
of the item.
    Not all items will be provided Item Cards. Non-mechanical items that cannot
be sold or traded, that boil down to being nothing more than props, will not
have Item Cards provided for them.
    Item Cards also do not work in the place of a Physical Representation of
an item. Item cards are intended to travel WITH a Physical Representation.
Brews, Meals, weapons, armors, and even engineered items require Physical
Representations to be used in game. Many of these Physical Representations give
dimension or volume requirements, which must be followed.
    Most Item Cards can be signed by a Marshal or Storyteller. These Item Cards
all follow a set guideline of mechanics, crafting rules, and existing blueprint
guidelines. Sometimes ‘Unique’ Item Cards are produced for one-of-a-kind items.
These ‘unique’ Item Cards, if they do not follow existing mechanics, need to be
approved and signed by the Directors of a branch.
    Also note that Unique Item Cards and Unique Blueprints have a slot on the
front of the card that says ‘approved for play in.’ All unique Item Cards must
be signed in, initialed, and reviewed by the local game before the item can be
approved for play. Once this item has been approved by the Director of a local
branch, they will sign off on the Item Card that the item is good for future use
in their game (thereby making it so that the item does not need to be reviewed
every time). Unique Item Cards and Unique Prints may never have an expiration
date longer than six months. Unique Item Cards, save for usage with Advanced
Profession Skills, are physical items and are not meant as means to provide
Skills or Strain advantages to a character. Characters need to spend experience
points to learn new Skills and abilities, it is unfair to allow players to have
access to free Skills with an item card. Unique Items and Prints also cannot be
recreated, transcribed, or duplicated by any means.
Item Cards without Physical representation
    Any Item Card that does not have a Physical representation associated with
it must be stored or transported in an in-game location of appropriate size,
such as a footlocker or large duf e bag. So long as these items do not have a
Physical representation, they cannot be actively brought into play. To be able
to use the Item Card, you must follow the guidelines below appropriate to the
item type.

43
     Items such as Scrap, Herbs, and Produce are often carried in large enough
volume that players cannot often carry Physical Representations for all of these
items.  To help represent that a player has both Scraps and Herbs on their
person, a player must have a designated Scrap and Herb bag that is roughly 12
inches wide by 12 inches long, by at least 2 inch wide. Bags that have the same
general dimensions but are difference shapes are acceptable.
Item Cards for Brews, Meals, Ammo,
and Unknown Quality Items
    When using items that are limited use, you need to have the Item Card out
to use the item. This includes Brews, Meals, and ammo. Because players hands
are often  lled with Physical Representations of the items in question, the
following options are available for players.
Munitions, Augments, and other Attachments
    Consider af xing a large pliable luggage tag to your munitions clip.  If
you know that you use custom munitions on a regular basis, having a large soft
luggage tag that can accept inserts on your munitions clip or  rearm is a good
route for you to go. This will allow you a place to put the Item Card so that
the equipment is out, and allow the required time for swapping munitions to your
gun.  Soft luggage tags that allow quick and easy card inserts are fantastic
for ease of Item Card access. Other than luggage tags, af xing ammo cards to
separate loadable magazines (when an option) or taping a collectible card sleeve
to the clip/side of your gun for sliding ammo Ctem Cards into also works instead
of using a luggage tag.
Brews and Meals
    Players should not be able to see the quality or nature of a Brew or a
Meal until they have consumed it. The volume and the physical representation
of the Physical Representation must match the description of the recipe used.
To ensure that players are not looking at the Brews and Meals before their
use, cooks and Distillers must place their items in opaque backed ‘collectable
card’ sleeves.  Green sleeves will be used for Meals, red sleeves for Brews (no
printed back sleeves allowed). This will allow a player to see the back of the
Item Card, to know that the color does match the sort of consumable item they
are buying. Distillers and crafters should write the number of servings on the
back of this Item Card so that players know that the volume they physically see
matches the volume on the card.  If a player uses Analyze Compound, they may
then  ip the card over to read the mechanics of the item.
Item Cards and Equipment Tags for Armor,
Weapons, and Shields
    All weapons, armor, and shield Item Cards need to be associated with a
speci c Physical Representation to be used in play. We do not require that you
attach the item card itself to the Physical Representation in question, but
instead, you will be issued an equipment tag from Logistics. All weapon Physical
Representation MUST come to Logistics before going into play, along with the
item card that will be associated with the Physical Representation. Once the
player has received their Equipment Tag, they must still keep the Item Card on
their person or near the weapon Physical Representation in the case of card
checks or theft of the item.
44

     Once the armor, shield, or weapon has been properly safety checked, a
paper or fabric wrist band will be attached. It can be attached anywhere on the
weapon, shield, or armor that is not a striking surface or interferes with the
operation/wielding of the equipment. Each Equipment Tag will have the owner’s
Player Number, the Weapon Damage or Armor Points, and a Marshal’s signature
written on it. If the item has a special quality (such as dealing Rad Damage,
or having a special skill) then the Equipment Tag will also have an “E” written
next to the Weapon Damage or Armor Points. Each Physical representation may only have one Item Card associated with it.

45
     So for example, a melee standard dealing 5 Poison Damage owned by player
#002 would be recorded as #002 – 5E followed by the Marshal’s signature.
    Brawlers used to represent basic Fist or Claw weapons do not require an Item
Card, but still must be issued an Equipment Tag to prove they have been safety
checked, and to more easily return them to the player should they be lost.
    If a weapon, shield, or armor is upgraded or the tag falls off during
play, it must be immediately brought to Logistics to have a new tag issued and
attached.
Item Cards for Building Augmentations,
Doors, and Workstations
    Just like more portable items, Building Augments and Workstations require
appropriate Physical Representation as de ned by their Item Cards. Typically
they will state a minimum size that the object or space must ful ll to be
used. The Item Card should be directly attached to the Physical representation
(Such as a Door or Workbench) or to the wall of the space that the Augment is
effecting, with the mechanics visible to anyone in the space that would be
affected. For objects that will be exposed to the elements, we suggest keeping
the item card in a collectable card sleeve, luggage tag holder, or zip-lock bag
to protect it.
Stealing Items, Physical representation versus Item Cards
    While the details of stealing will be left to the Rules section (See
“Character Versus Character Actions”), everyone needs to know how Item Cards and
Physical Representation work in regards to stealing and Logistics.
    Any item that is stolen in game must follow the above rules for Physical
Representation or be in a proper container (so keep those big scavenger bags
handy). Once the theft has been witnessed by a Marshal, and the appropriate in-
game time has been spent evading capture, the thief may bring the stolen item to
Logistics, where the item will be entered into a Theft Log.
    When the owner comes to look for their item (Either in the Lost and Found
or Theft Log), they will be informed that they need to con rm the Item Card
against the Item Tag (in the case of Weapons, Armor, and Shields) or be able to
adequately describe the Physical Representation to prove it is theirs (in the
case of other items). Once they produce the Item Card for the item and turn it
in to Logistics, their Physical Representation will be returned to them. The
original owner’s character number should be recorded on the Item Card, and then
placed in the Theft Log.
    The thief can return then at their leisure to pick up the Item Card to enjoy
the pro ts of their labor. See the Rules section for more details.
46

 
47
 Visiting Other Branches
As Dystopia Rising has grown, additional companies now have the ability to join the branch network that is the Dystopia Rising Network. With the ability to travel to multiple events in the same month, some things work differently in regards to gaining Experience Points, using items, and learning Skills. When visiting, the following rules apply.
Character Sheets
    When visiting other game branches, your character sheet must be presented
to the head of that local game for review. While the Dystopia Rising Network
uses a networked online database for storing character sheets and tracking XP
growth, each character sheet must receive individual approval from the local
staff. While local staff members may not strike Skills from your character sheet
nor disallow your entrance into game, they do have the right to know what is
being introduced into their game. This will be done by accessing your character
information on the national database.
Visiting with Items
    When you present your character sheet, you must also show all Item Cards,
Blueprints, recipes, and unique items to the head of the local game for
approval. If it is at all possible, and easier, you can send a list of these
items to the Directors of the branch you are visiting via email prior to
attending. The branch you are visiting has the ability to approve or disapprove
any unique item cards or unique prints from entering the game. Any unique item
cards must be signed off by one of the Director of the branch you are visiting.
This is not due to items being unbalanced or questioning the validity of an
Item Card, but rather to ensure that the appropriate power level of the branch
stays true to its local players. As a guest at a game you are travelling to, it
is your responsibility to adhere to the stylistic needs of the branch you are
visiting.
Returning from Visit with Items
    When returning to your home game, you must get all custom or unique Item
Cards and Blueprints approved by your local branch before those items are
allowed to enter game.
Learning New Skills and Professions While Visiting
    When visiting another game, you may teach or learn Skills. If you are
learning Skills, those Skills must be recorded on your character sheet.  You
must turn your character sheet in at the end of the event you are attending,
to the staff of the game you are attending.  When the staff from the game you
visited updates their character sheets, they will enter your information and
learned Skills directly into the database for your local game’s approval.
These skills may be used at the next twelves, as normal. However all decisions
in regards to approved or unapproved skills being  nalized as learned is the
purview of your home game staff.
Visitor Experience and Total Events Attended
    When you Check In at a game you are visiting, you are awarded 1 Experience
Point for attending the game. You may purchase additional Experience Points as
normal. Travel games are not counted as part of your “Events Attended” total.
48

 Assistance Points
    Assistance Points are based branch by branch.  While you may only expend
Assistance Points for Build Points at your home game, you may use Branch Speci c
assistance points for other in-game perks and bene ts.  Assistance points may
only ever be used at the branch at which they were earned.
Transferring Your Character to Another Branch
    If you have moved or  nd it otherwise necessary to transfer your character
from your current primary game to a new game, there is a simple procedure to
follow.
    Request Permission, in writing, from the Game Directors of your home
game branch and the branch you wish to transfer to. Note that if the player
has a Basic Membership, they may have to wait until the end of their current
Membership year.
    Once the transfer is approved, all Item Cards, prints, and in-game currency
gained by that character must be turned into your home game branch.
    Once the character has been transferred, they will be issued new starter
equipment for their new game branch.
                         Once a character has been transferred to a new game
                         branch, the character cannot be transferred again for
                         6 Months if the player has an Advanced Membership, or
                         until the end of their current Basic Membership year.
                                Please note that while it may be natural for
                             a character to distribute their resources before
                              risking it all on travel, players found to have
                              “given away their worldly possessions” before
                               transferring, and before turning in their
                                materials to their home game, may have their
                                transfers denied.
                                   Characters being transferred to a new game
                                 must follow the new game’s restrictions in
                                   regards to playable Strains.  Certain Strains
                                    are restricted by geography to ensure the
                                     proper core book genre and localized
                                      culture of each branch’s game. Transferal
                                      of character to get around locational
                                      restrictions is not allowed. Any character
                                     that falls into a new set of restrictions
                                     will need to submit an application and be
                                    approved for play before the character can
                                   be transferred. Additionally, restricted
                                  characters must be played in their home
                                     branch on a regular basis or be removed
                                     from play. Regular play is de ned by the
                                      Directors of the branch in question.

49
 First Event Tips
It’s your  rst event. You have your costume, your character sheet, and all of the logistics sorted. But what do you do once you arrive? How do you get involved in the world? Whether you come in with a group of friends or are by yourself, there are a few things to keep in mind when entering the world of Dystopia Rising.
First of all, don’t be intimidated. If you’ve never LARPed before (or even if you have and this is your  rst game), then it might seem a bit overwhelming. There are new faces, new concepts, and turns of phrase that you aren’t used to. Don’t be scared, though; go up to people and talk to them as your character. Simply talking to someone can really help draw you into the game.
    Your character —and acting as your character— is also an integral part of
your  rst event. Before you even enter game, try to keep in mind that you will
be acting like a different person for the next two days. Think of traits that
your character has that you don’t. Think of how your character moves and talks.
Think of any quirks your character might have. By going over these things before
you enter game and then running with them throughout your entire event, you can
get a better grasp of your character as a person— which will make staying in
character that much easier.
That brings up another point: stay in character. It may be tempting to “drop” character to make a comment about something that’s happening at the moment, but resist the urge. Dropping character can interrupt a scene, and it’s always better to remain in character and then discuss what happened after the event.
    That’s not to say you should be afraid to ask questions, though. If you’re
ever at a loss about game mechanics when a Skill is being used on your character
(for example, what does the Skill “Body Puppet” do?), don’t hesitate to put your
hand on your head —the out-of-character signal— and ask the other player to
Clarify what they meant when using the Skill. It can take a while to get a hang
of all of the different mechanics, so don’t be shy about asking.
    There are also a few other things that you can do when entering game for the
 rst time. Doing your NPC shift early in your event can give you a taste of the
world and the mechanics that you’ll be working with. You can get a better sense
of what combat is all about, see how zombies function and meet other players
while they’re not acting as their characters. This can help ease you into the
world rather than diving in head  rst.
    Although each branch is different, most games also have a new player
orientation session and/or a new player module. This means that players with
characters that have been around for three games are less get a chance to go on
a module speci cally designed with new characters in mind. This can be anything
from saving a farmer from a pack of zombies to performing a dissection on a
strange creature that attacked a local town. Going on this module is a good way
to get a taste of the game that you’re attending, and also allows you to meet
other new characters.
    If you still feel like you’re having a hard time getting into game, though,
don’t hesitate to go to Logistics. Explain that you’re having a hard time
getting into game as a new player and would like to be involved in some plot.
The Storytellers (STs) on shift at that time will gladly loop you into modules.
50

     And now comes the most important tip when it comes to your event: Take
care of yourself. Your  rst event can be exciting. It can be an adrenaline rush
to run around in the woods and kill zombies, but don’t forget the essentials
(you know, like eating). Forgetting to take care of yourself can quickly turn
your event from fun to miserable. Bring extra clothes, remember to wash up if
you sweat too much, and make sure to eat, drink and sleep. If it’s sunny, use
sunscreen and drink tons of water. If it’s cold, layer up, use hand warmers,
and still drink tons of water. Your character is a survivor— so make sure that
you’re one, too.
    Your  rst event can be your best. Don’t hesitate to get involved, and most
importantly, have fun. After all, it’s a game; having fun is the point. Now that
you’re ready for the apocalypse, get your gun and get ready. It’s going to be a
wild ride.

51
 Supplies for the Apocalypse
Here is a list of items we recommend bringing when you come to a Dystopia Rising event. This list is not all-inclusive, and without a doubt there are other common sense items you want to bring, but this is a good start. Keep in mind that while the theme of the world is post-apocalyptic, bringing certain items will ensure that you have a better time over the weekend.
Staff Items
    Signed Parental Release Form for teens under the age of 18, Photo
Identi cation, Required Waiver Forms, Game Fee, Pen
Toiletries
    Toothpaste, Toothbrush, Dental Floss, Shampoo, Metal Mirror, Toilet Paper,
Comb, Sun Screen, Bug Repellent, Deodorant, Prescription Medications (be sure to
register allergies, medication requirements and other medical conditions with
our staff), Flip-Flops For Shower (as site and season allow), and Towel.
Safety Gear
    Crank Powered or Low Strength Red-Gelled Flashlight, First Aid Kit, Contact
Safe Weapon Repair Kit
Kitchen Supplies
    Hiking Safe Drinking Vessel, Paper or Reusable Plate or Bowl, Reusable
Utensil, Trash Bags, Clean-Wipes,
Clothes
    Change of Clothes For Weather (Under-layers and thermals for winter,
lightweight gear for summer), Socks, NPC Clothes (Simple black or grey durable
clothes you can move in), Socks, Street Clothes, Waterproofed Footwear you can
run in, Seriously don’t forget spare Socks.
Game Supplies
    Packets/Foam Darts (as needed), Contact Safe Weapons, Headbands (Orange,
Green)
Sleeping Gear
    Tent, Ground Cloth, Sleeping Bag, Blankets, In atable Cushions/ Mattress,
Low Powered Camp Lamp (non- ame), Glowsticks to Mark Tent Lines.
Food Suggestions
Pack food and water to match your needs for multiple days of physical
exertion. Some locations offer refrigeration, however, not all sites do. Be sure to plan accordingly. Fruit, granola bars, protein bars, and large gallon jugs of water are a great start. Aim for foods that require little to no cooking, since there
is no ‘down time’ to eat. It is highly recommended that you re-pack your food in reusable/resealable genre appropriate containers before you come to an event.
52

 Costume
    Make sure your costume is not only safe for running, jumping, crashing
through the woods, slipping in mud and swinging combat safe weapons, but also
rugged. There is no doubt that at some point during a Dystopia Rising event you
could end up with fake blood on you and some fake blood stains on your clothes.
Do not bring or wear anything to Dystopia Rising that you would be heartbroken
to  nd damaged, stained, or destroyed. Most of the time zombie blood splatters
make a costume cooler, since it now has history to it; however, if your costume
is something you don’t want stained, then don’t bring it. Dystopia Rising is not
responsible for the safety of your property if it is broken or stolen.
Don’t Bring
    Any expensive, delicate, or meaningful items
are a recipe for disaster. Assume everything
will be covered in blood and sticky gore.

53
 Should I, Could I,
Have this at Dystopia Rising?
    Since the world has fallen, and a great deal of technology and information
has been lost, the question is often raised: ‘What kinds of items are acceptable
for my character to have at a Dystopia Rising event?’ While we can’t give you
a list of every single piece of approved equipment, we can give you a set of
general guidelines to follow. Flexibility and creativity help too– a wristwatch
is much more likely to be approved if you bring a prop with a weathered look
that’s crafted from simple materials, as opposed to a shiny new model that looks
like it has just rolled off a modern mass production line. (Having setting-
appropriate props helps maintain the game’s mood and environment for everyone.)
Keep in mind that game staff always has the  nal say with regard to what is
appropriate for their game; when in doubt about a particular prop or other piece
of technology, just ask.
    That said, here are some tips on what kinds of technology your character
could (or shouldn’t) have:
• If it has microchips, chances are good it doesn’t work.
• If it requires a steady  ow of electricity, chances are good that it
doesn’t work.
• If it requires batteries, chances are good that it doesn’t work.
• If it is delicate or fragile, chances are good that it is cracked or broken.
• If it requires outside support (signal, satellites, ETC), chances are good it doesn’t work.
• If it requires regular upkeep, chances are that it broke down a long time ago and was Scrapped for parts.
• If it requires a trained professional to take care of it, upkeep it, calibrate it, or  x it, chances are it broke a long time ago.
• If it is a brand name, a cultural reference, or a modern convenience chances are good that you do not know about it.
• If you couldn’t make it by hand without complex machinery, chances are good that you don’t have it or know about it.
• Is it clean? Probably should make it stained or dirty.
• Does it have solid seams and no signs of wearing away? Should probably
rip those seems out and distress things a bit.
• Does it look white? Should probably add some stains. Even Pure Bloods
    mostly have ‘aged lace’ or off-white clothes.
54

 You and your Character
Keeping Character Concepts Genre Appropriate
So you’ve decided to make a character in the world of Dystopia Rising, and you are bouncing some ideas around in your head for the personality and origins of your character. While thinking about what you would like to play, you have the thought of ‘Hey, wouldn’t it be cool if I could play my favorite non Dystopia Rising video game, anime, or movie character as MY CHARACTER?’ You start planning out your character with the idea of how to force this character concept to work in the Dystopia Rising universe, and immediately start talking to your friends about how you are making a themed character.
Before you go any further, please stop.
Dystopia Rising is a fully  eshed out world. There are volumes of world materials, source books, novels, information, and genre materials that are produced by Eschaton Media INC. Beyond the canon source materials that are produced by Eschaton Media INC, the Directors of your local branch have worked very hard to produce a back story and genre for the game area you will be playing at. Often times this genre information is available on the game’s web site, forum, and/or web media page.
As you look at these source materials you should note that none of these materials say anything about your favorite non-Dystopia Rising fandom. There is a reason why there are not details about incorporating your favorite other fandoms into Dystopia Rising; it is because Dystopia Rising is its own standalone fandom. The people who are coming to Dystopia Rising are doing so to play in the Dystopia Rising universe, not in the universe of a different fandom. You should be coming to play in the Dystopia Rising universe, not in a different fandom.
With this in mind, a character designed for the Dystopia Rising universe is what you should be making. You should not be trying to make your favorite fandom using the Dystopia Rising universe and world setting as your canvas. If you are looking to play your favorite fandom and not Dystopia Rising, Eschaton Media has released the CHRONOS Universal LARP system, which we highly endorse for running your own custom fandom games with your friends.
It is, however, completely acceptable to take inspiration from your favorite non-Dystopia Rising fandoms and use that inspiration to make a new and original Dystopia Rising concept. The difference between attempting to play a character and taking inspiration is that at no point does your character concept, background, or roleplay become more driven by your other fandom instead of
the Dystopia Rising universe. The character you play should above all else be inspired and designed to be a part of the Dystopia Rising universe, with your own personal inspirations pulled from outside sources.

55
     Playing characters that are clones of other fandoms is not only not normally
appropriate for game, but it is also inconsiderate to your fellow players.
Players come to Dystopia Rising to play the Dystopia Rising universe.  Please do
not break the immersion of other players by forcing your fandom into their faces
while they are attempting to play Dystopia Rising.
Warning Signs That You May Have To Reconsider Your Concept
    If you use any of the following phrases when thinking about or talking about
your character concept with other people, you should probably reconsider your
character concept and redesign the idea of being Dystopia Rising genre  rst.
“Wouldn’t it be funny if...”
“We should totally make the characters from...”
“Have you ever seen (fandom)? That is effectively my character.”
“I don’t know if it  ts, but...”
“COOL! I already have that cosplay costume.”
“It’s not completely genre, but...”
“I’m playing (insert name) from (insert game that isn’t Dystopia Rising)...”
56

 What is Shared Story Telling?
So you’ve got everything you need to dive into your next Dystopia Rising event. You’ve gathered up your supplies, put together a great post-apocalyptic costume and gear, and drafted up a character. Time to dive into the Dystopia Rising world and enjoy the experience of shared storytelling with your fellow survivors.
    Look around you the next time you’re at an event. There are lawyers,
students, doctors, baristas, writers, artists and people from all walks of life
who play Dystopia Rising LARP. While you may not have anything in common with
them job-wise, though, you all share a love of gaming. Each month, you dress up
as a survivor and live for an entire weekend as someone who has to  ght off the
constant threats of the undead. In the end, we’re all nerds, we’re all equal,
and we’re all there to have fun.
    Live action role-play is about sharing this experience with others. It’s
about enjoying a story as you and fellow players navigate a challenging world.
It’s about not only having fun yourself; it’s about making sure the gamers
around you also have a good time. After all, in the apocalypse you can’t go it
alone.
    Think of the world as if it were a series of books. Each season is its own
novel, with branches featuring different characters. Your character may have
their own branch, but they are only a small part of the series. Without the rest
of the colorful cast of characters, the book would seem one-dimensional— at.
    Shared story telling is about interacting with the world and the other
characters within it. It’s about recognizing that you are not always the hero;
sometimes you’re the sidekick, or the villain, or even just the bystander.
Learn to play your character to the best of your abilities, but also remember
that shared story telling is a team effort. You don’t always need to be in the
limelight. Sometimes, it’s better to take a back seat and let others have their
moment.
    There are no winners and no losers in LARP. You can’t “win” a LARP like you
can win a video game. Your character may be able to kill any zombie he comes
across; he may have all of the credits in the game; but what’s the point if your
character never progresses in the story? The point of LARP is the journey that
your character takes— the challenges he has to overcome, the friends and enemies
he makes, the interactions that he has with others.
    This, in particular, is important to remember when NPCing during a game.
Sure, your NPC will have set goals, but NPCs aren’t the stars of the show.
They’re meant to be the faceless zombies that you see heroes in a movie shoot
down; they’re meant to be the unmemorable farmer who pleads for help. As a NPC,
you’re meant to challenge characters, you’re meant to make them think— but
you’re not meant to “win.” Instead, you’re there to breathe life into the world;
you’re there to entertain.

57
     If you’re a shambling zombie, then be prepared to go down easily and not
try your hardest to “defeat” your opponent. Instead, focus on the roleplay of
it. Gurgle on the  oor and grasp at the player’s ankles. Snarl and groan as you
crawl across the ground; put on a show as the player kills your NPC. This is
what helps bring the world to life— and in the end, that’s how both you and the
player “win” at LARP. You both share in the story that you create together.
    In Dystopia Rising, you’re not alone. There are other characters that
constantly challenge and push your own character, altering their thinking and
their existence. Together, you create the world that your characters exist in,
and you form the story that you share with others.
58

 Controlling Bleed: Keeping Role Play Safe
The world of Dystopia Rising is full of shades of grey. Men and women destroy others in order to survive. The bodies of friends and foes rise up again in a hollow mockery of the living, shambling toward those who have managed to cling
to their existence. Morals are ambiguous in the apocalypse—and that’s why “bleed” can become an issue.
    Bleed occurs when your emotions affect your character’s, or your character’s
affect your own. During intense or emotional scenes, the barrier between you
and your character can become more transparent. While some LARPs, such as some
freeform LARPs, actually encourage bleed, it’s not something that you should
necessarily aim for with Dystopia Rising.  You are not your character, and it’s
important to be aware of what subjects might trigger you personally as you play
a LARP.
    Dystopia Rising deals with horror, which means that it touches on topics
which aren’t comfortable for all players. Torture, questionable morality, death
and emotional turmoil are all subjects that are dealt with in game. That’s why
it’s important not only to decide whether Dystopia Rising is right for you,
but to know when you’ve personally hit your limit. Note that sexual assault,
rape, and any other forms of sex-related threats and terminology are always off
limits.
    Other subjects, though, are free game— and Strainism is one of them. In
the world of Dystopia Rising, different Strains exist. These different people
can often clash— take Yorkers and Bay Walkers as examples. Insulting another
person using “Strainist” terms isn’t uncommon (“You dirty rust monkey” or “Fuck
off, puddle jumper”). That said, no actual racist terms should ever be used.
Instead, take a look at the Strainist words available in the Slang and Strainist
Terminology section, and work from that.
    There are times, though, where a scene can be dif cult for the players
involved. When you’re in a scene that might be uncomfortable for either you
or another player, always work to the level of the least comfortable person.
This way, you can be sure that the experience doesn’t pass anyone’s limits. In
addition, if you’re particularly uncomfortable with speci c subject material,
feel free to place your hand on the top of your head in the “out-of-character”
signal, and brie y say so. Also feel free to “tap out” at any point during
a scene you  nd particularly uncomfortable. Just be sure to let a Marshal or
Storyteller there know that you need to leave the scene.
    For example, there may be a situation where your character is “locked” in
a con ned space— a wooden cof n, for instance. You may actually be physically
placed within a wooden cof n. If you’re claustrophobic, though, this can be an
issue. If you need to, tell the Storyteller or Marshal on hand that you need to
“tap out” of the situation. You will never be penalized for needing to leave a
scene.

59
     It’s also important to understand that “bleed” can occur not just during
a game, but also after a game.  You may feel upset over certain things that
occurred, or you may feel wronged by a particular character. For example, your
character may have had to watch, helpless, as another character killed an
ally or friend. You may have spent months or even years roleplaying with this
character and with a simple action, he’s suddenly “gone” for good.
    If you feel upset after game, take a deep breath and step back; remember
that this happened to your character, and not to you.  This is particularly
important to remember when thinking about other characters. If another character
does something to “wrong” your character, don’t be upset at the player. There’s
quite a difference between player actions and character actions.
    So what can you do to help with separation if you’re experiencing bleed?
Introducing yourself to a player outside of game is a good way to help separate
in-game and out-of-game relationships. Take a moment before or after game to
compliment a player on a good scene, or discuss a moment that you shared.
Getting to know a player can show that there are no hard feelings over a scene
that occurred between your characters.
    Bleed doesn’t only happen with negative events, either; it can happen
with all kinds of interactions. Character relationships can “bleed” over into
real life, for example. Your character may have allies, enemies and romantic
interests; but that doesn’t meant these relationships carry outside of game.
Someone who plays a character who is a “bad guy,” may in all likelihood be a
sweet person, for example.
    So what about romantic relationships between two characters in game?
Dystopia Rising does not provide speci c mechanics for impregnation or how
to simulate sexual acts. However, the topic of consensual sex between two
characters should always be addressed in a mature manner in order to make sure
that there’s no discomfort between players. It’s also important to note that
at no time may sex be a focus of roleplay for individuals under the age of 18.
In addition, nudity should never be involved. Instead, consider giving three-
word descriptions to describe how your character acts during intimate moments
(for example: “Eager but Unexperienced” or “Angry Chainsaw Fight”). You can also
simply agree that the act occurred and, after a time, both characters return to
play.
    A good rule of thumb is to default to the lowest level of comfort in the
room or area. If you are unsure what that is, we strongly suggest you default
to a level that every grandmother and school teacher would stereotypically be
alright with.
    Your comfort level is important in game, and it’s crucial to be aware of
any bleed you may experience. That said, you should never “tap out” of a scene
just to avoid repercussions for your character. If you’re simply trying to dodge
consequences, staff members will consider it a rules violation.
    The most important thing to remember, though, is to be respectful of other
players. Showing them respect and understanding their boundaries will go a
long way when it comes to managing bleed. Communication is key; remember that
subjects that may be acceptable to some, may not be for others.
60

 Downtime, Between Games, and You
The Dystopia Rising LARP Network does not encourage between game roleplaying, the running of private scenes between events, or even the focus of having character responsibilities between games.
Why is this?
    There are many reasons for doing this. The most important reason for not
encouraging downtime role-playing is to ensure that our community focuses on
the community, and not the game, between events. We are a network of thousands
of people with similar hobbies.  Let’s take advantage of meeting one another
via this game medium, and truly explore life and the world. While branches and
network members are encouraged to run social events, gatherings, and special
downtime musters, we do not want our members focusing on being in-character
during these times. Let’s actually get to know one another, make lifelong
friendships, and have some connections outside of game.
    The second reason it is so important to keep ‘game on game weekends’ as
much as possible is to prevent burnout. While for short periods of time it is
exciting to always have a character available to slip on and play, like any
game, if you play the game too often you become tired and burnt out on the
game. More than other games, with LARPing the drama and responsibilities of
in-character life in a post-apocalyptic world can bring up some very dark and
negative emotional states. While it may be fun to enjoy the horror, drama,
and gritty survival for short periods of time, actually living in the world of
Dystopia Rising (without the de nition of it just being a weekend long game)
really would suck. Think about it! Always worried about being eaten, running
out of food, getting irradiated, poisoned, mugged for your shoes, all of these
things would SUCK to experience every day. So keeping game as an ‘at the event
weekend’ item makes these game weekends more fun.
    The third reason is that your dedicated staff needs a break every now and
then. The majority of game is operated by volunteers who get to play for free
in exchange for donating time while at game.  These players have entire lives
to tend to away from game. While many of them will make time available weekly
to help people out via forum and email, we owe it to our staff members to allow
them some down time to just be people.
    So while we know that your character lives between events, and we know
that there are a thousand things that your character would do if given all
the time in the world, the fact of the matter is that you are playing a game
that is designed to exist from the time game starts until the end of a weekend
when a game ends. Your character probably has a million adventures, near death
experiences, and things they would do with the time in between games. Your
character also probably has millions of problems, issues, debts, expenses, and
needs that they would need to handle between games. Dystopia Rising is intended
to be an entertainment LARP, not a full life simulation.
With that in mind, we aim to keep the game at game.
    Lastly, not focusing on downtime activity is what we like to call a
bleed  lter. Bleed, as a term, describes the amount of a players own personal
identity and emotional investment that the player puts into their character
and the degree to which game related events can affect the person portraying

61
 a character.  If you  nd yourself angry in game due to your out of world
emotions, this is bleed. If you  nd yourself actually growing frustrated due
to shortcomings or situations that your character is dealing with, this is
bleed. If you  nd yourself happy after game because you had a deep an enriching
emotional experience as your character, this is bleed.
    Bleed is not universally a bad or good thing. It is natural that humans are
affected by something that they witness or partake in, even as a character.
    However, too much bleed can be a negative in uence on a person’s life.
Bleed without regulation causes a situation where a larger and larger portion of
a player’s identity, emotions, and life investment become focused more and more
on their character. When bleed from an entertainment focused game world becomes
a high level of in uence on a person’s real world life, it is time to release
the pressure valve a little bit and to recognize one’s own life priorities.
    By not focusing on downtime actions, or activities between games, we allow
the hobby of LARPing to remain as a hobby by not allowing it to take over the
majority of our real lives.  This downtime allows us to spend the majority of
our attention on our own personal lives, personal advancement, community of
friends, and greater world culture as a whole. We can use the advantage of a
unifying hobby to build bonds of friendship, professional ties, and to better
ourselves as people.
    Game will always be there. As long as there is imagination, long after we
are gone, there will be game. Let’s focus on making sure that our time at game
is fun, but our real world experience is better.
62

 Returning to Reality, Decompression after an Event
    You’ve just spent a weekend at the apocalypse— two full days of  ghting
zombies, evading raiders and cowering in fear. You bled alongside allies,
slaughtered enemies, made business deals and screamed (possibly more than once).
You jumped into the bushes and hid when that giant monster came walking down the
trail, and you interacted with a cast of characters that still remain fresh in
your mind.
    But now, the event is over. You don’t have to wake up at 3 a.m. with your
heart pounding, weapon clutched in one hand. That knocking on your door is
simply the deliveryman— not a pack of zombies. Returning to reality after an
event can be a weird shift. After the adrenaline and excitement of a Dystopia
Rising LARP event, getting back to “normal” can be hard.
    After events, there’s something known as a decompression period. This is
when you’re still high on excitement and energy from the event. You probably
want to swap and share stories, and talk about what happened to your character
over the course of the weekend. This period is good; it’s a transition between
the event and reality. It allows you to take a step back and examine what
happened to your character from an outsider’s perfective.
    Many people who LARP wind up getting a meal together afterward and talk
about the event. This allows them to kick back, relax and transition back to
reality as they talk with friends. Hanging out with people outside of game lets
you get to know the players rather than their characters. And it’s important to
remember that at the end of the day, the players are not their characters; while
someone may act like a stuck-up asshole in game, that doesn’t mean they’re like
that in reality.
    This decompression period can vary among players. You can immediately snap
back to reality, or take a few days before the excitement wears off. You’ll
sometimes notice a burst of activity on local forums right after an event (or
right before one) as players talk about game.
    This excitement is natural. Games can feel like a rush as your character
works with others to achieve goals. But if you’re having trouble “getting over”
game, there are a few ways that can help with the decompression period.
    Focus on what you enjoy in your regular life— your hobbies. Whether it’s
playing games, drawing, playing the guitar, or simply hanging out with friends,
hobbies can help you “get back” to life after game.
    Writing out game memories or a short story after an event can also help
you decompress and put the event behind you.  Sorting out your character’s
experience during an event by writing it down afterward can be a good way to
compartmentalize the event.
    Remember, game will always be waiting for you when you return.

63
 Character Creation
Character creation for the Dystopia Rising world is simple, much in the same way that we try to keep the mechanics for the world itself simple. You will only need a pencil, a print out of the Dystopia Rising Character Sheet (two sided, one page), and a calculator if you can’t do the basic math by hand.
The Character Concept
    Before we delve into the nuts and bolts of your character, though, you
will need a character concept. A character concept is the core idea of who your
character is. A concept can be as simple or as complex as you desire; however,
the more thought and time you put into  guring out your concept, the easier the
next few steps are. Don’t be afraid if you start off simple and then elaborate
as you go on–  guring out in-game traits can help write personality and history
too!
    What is the basic concept of your character? What is her personality like?
Does she have a unique outlook on life? What does she want most? How do you
see her handling things like mortal danger, making money, religious crises,
or interacting with others? And perhaps the most interesting question in an
apocalyptic world: What is she most afraid of?
    Once you have this general concept in your mind, it’s time to  esh out the
points of your character. First you  ll in your name, and the name you have
chosen for your character on the character sheet. Do not worry about  lling out
player number; we will take care of that for you when you get to an event.
The Character Sheet
    The character sheet lays out all of your character’s basic information in a
quick to read, easy access location so you can focus on playing the game. While
your character sheet will grow over time, for now, you only need to make a few
key choices. Your character sheet records your character’s Strain, Professions,
Skills, and any effects that you will be affected by through game play. There
are several terms you will become familiar with through this process.
64

 Health
    Also referred to as “Body Points”, these points track how much damage
you can sustain before your character falls into Bleed Out. This basically
represents how tough you are, how much hurt you can take, and just how hard
it is for a medic to patch you back up to full Health. Health can only be
replenished by in-game means.
Mind Points
    Mind represents your character’s mental focus and acuity, as well as their
endurance when performing tasks. These points are expended to activate Skills
and abilities your character has, and can be restored through various in-game
means. Mind Points automatically refresh at Noon and Midnight each day.
Infection Rating
    All survivors in the Dystopia Rising world have some amount of the z-plague
infection coursing through their body. This determines just how many times you
can die before you return for a  nal tour as one of the hungering dead!
Experience Points
    Also referred to as “Build”, these points are earned over time based on
the number of events you play, as well as traded for service points and in-game
creature comforts. These points are earned at the beginning of each event, and
can be spent to learn new Skills, as well as increase your Mind and Body Points.
To begin, you will start with 13 Experience Points to buy your starting Skills
before you enter play.
Strain of Humanity
    The newly evolved Strains of Humanity. Each Strain has unique quirks and
aspects to them, so you will receive advantages and disadvantages based on your
Strain, as well as your starting Mind Points, Health Points, and Infection
rating.  When choosing what Strain you wish to play,  rst consult your local
branch’s web page to determine what Strains are appropriate for play.
Certain Strains are not allowed in an area due to genre, geographic, and world knowledge experience. Some Strains require a higher degree of knowledge of the Dystopia Rising universe (primarily from the table top materials) to ensure these Strains are represented correctly. Strains are broken down into Common, Uncommon, Rare, and Inappropriate for Play per individual branch.
Common Strains may be played by any experience level player without requirement for background or Assistance Point expenditure. Common Strains are the most common in the Dystopia Rising universe, and with that, require the most rudimentary knowledge of the Dystopia Rising universe.
Uncommon Strains require a player to have played the game for at least
two months, and may have certain locational requirements (such as Pure Blood families being linked to particular local business or far-off Strains being linked to local settlements). Uncommon Strains require the expenditure of 150 Assistance Points upon approval in addition to having the character approved for play and are reviewed for 3 games after approval to ensure the character is being portrayed appropriately for genre, as well as to ensure the character matches the submitted background.

65
 Rare Strains are the most limited and dif cult to portray in the Dystopia Rising universe. Rare Strains require Director approval to play prior to a game event, and players looking to play a Rare Strain must have attended game for at least four months before applying for play. Rare Strains require a submitted background, the expenditure of 300 Assistance Points, are restricted by branch caps, and are reviewed for 6 games after approval to ensure the character is being portrayed appropriately for genre as well as to ensure the character matches the submitted background.
Professions
    Professions are broad categories that de ne the essence of what you do and
your approach to life. You start with one by default, and can purchase up to two
more in play. Each Profession has a unique Skills
List from which you can purchase Skills.
Skills
    Skills are abilities that your
character has in order to survive the
harsh Dystopian world.
Continuous Skills are those
that you can always use, such
as knowing how to wield a
weapon or knowing how to
read. Skills with a Cost
require you to expend
Mind Points to use, and
you will only be able
to use them so long
as you have the Mind
Points to power them.
Faith
    There are a range
of post-apocalyptic
churches that have
risen after the fall,
and your character just
might join one. However,
at character creation, you
cannot start baptized to
a faith unless you begin
play with the Nation of
Accensor Strain or the
Priest Profession.
66

 Choosing Your Strain
    The next step is choosing the Strain for your character. Each Strain has
unique quirks and aspects to them, so you want to choose the Strain that matches
your character concept the best. Here is where you may want to start tweaking
little things here and there about your character, so that it  ts in better in
the world you will be playing in.
    Each Strain has a starting Health, Mind Points, and Infection Rate. These
three numbers mean unique things. The  rst, Health, is how many points of damage
you can take before your character falls to the ground mortally wounded. The
larger the number, the more abuse you can take before you drop. The second, your
Mind Points, is what is used to fuel your Skills, crafts, prayers, and psionic
abilities. The larger the number, the more often you will be able to use your
special Skills when you start. The last number, the Infection Rate, is a very
important number.
    Every person in Dystopia Rising carries some degree of the zombie infection.
In some ways, this is actually a good thing– people can heal incredibly quickly
compared to previous generations, and the early stages of the infection actually
cause people to become reanimated and sentient postmortem. If you have any
Infection Rate remaining when you die, the infection reanimates you, and at the
last moment sentience and necessary vital functions kick back in. The lower
your Infection Rate gets, though, the harder it is to come fully back to life
again, and once your Infection Rate drops to zero, the infection has become too
advanced. If you rise again at all, it will be as one of the mindless undead.
    In short, the Infection Rate is the number of times your character can die
before she is reduced to a mindless member of the restless dead.
    Go ahead and  ll these numbers in with pencil; you may want to buy more
Health or Mind Points later.
Choosing Your Profession & Skills
    After you have  lled in your character’s Strain, you need to choose a  rst
Profession for your character. Your character  lls a niche, has a drive, and a
series of skills that allows her to survive and thrive in this dangerous land.
Look through all of the Professions and choose one which matches what you see
your character doing the best.
    Now the part you may need the calculator for. Every character receives 13
points for character creation. All thirteen of these points must be spent at
creation, and any unspent points are lost. Now you have three places you can  nd
what skills you can purchase:
1. Your Strain Skill List
2. Your Profession Skill List
3. The Open Skill List
4. Health or Mind Points at a One to One Ratio

67
     These three sets of Skills are all that is available for you to purchase at
character creation. These Skills represent what unique Skills your character has
beyond being the unique snow ake that you are. At no point can you learn a Skill
that does not exist within your character’s Profession, Strain, or the Open
Skill List.
    So now you have the Skills you want, and you  nd yourself with a few extra
points kicking around. These points can be spent on a one to one ratio for
additional Health or Mind Points- but not Infection. At no point can additional
Infection Points be purchased.
    Now looking at the sheet you notice you have slots for Profession two and
Profession three. Right now you do not need to do anything with those slots,
unless you hail from the Remnant Strain. However, it is worth noting that during
game you can have people teach you additional Professions, opening up entire new
brackets of Skills to choose from.
That’s It
    No. Really. You’ve created a character.
    Now the fun bits! Weapons, costuming, and getting into the game.
Re-Writing Your Character
    Of course, with the sheer breadth of materials covered in this book alone,
it is understandable that you might not catch it all on your  rst pass through.
Maybe your  rst event in play showed you some new aspect of the game that really
speaks to you, or you realized that your initial character design just wasn’t
quite right. Never fear, because for your  rst three events, you are allowed to
re-write your character with no penalties.
    To re-write your character, simply report to Logistics and speak with the
Marshal or Storyteller present to review any changes that you wish to make to
your character. Once you have turned in your original starting gear, you may
rebuild your character as a starting character with 13 Build, as normal, but do
not lose any build you have already earned. Once you have  nished your re-write,
the staff member will sign off on the changes made. Based on your new Strain,
Professions, and Skills, you will be issued new starter gear, and can then
re-enter play.  Character re-writes should occur prior to your old character
receiving their Check In Skill resources, and even more preferably, should be
handled before entering game.
Character Details: Props, Weapons, and Costuming
With your concept and your character sheet, all you need now is your contact safe weapon and your character’s costuming. You are allowed to start with one weapon per base weapon Skill that you have. If you have a speci c melee weapon Skill, you may start with one melee weapon. If you have the bolt action Skill, you may start with one single shot bolt action weapon. For contact safe weapon creation, please refer to our contact safe weapon creation section on our website, DYSTOPIARISINGLARP.COM.
68

     For costume, we would like to offer you some recommendations. First, make
sure your costume is useful in a wooded outdoor environment. While some out ts
may look incredible, if you can’t run away from a zombie in them, they don’t do
you much good at all. Next, make sure your costume  ts the weather and climate
of the area– nothing is more unpleasant than not wearing enough when it is
freezing out or wearing too much when it is very hot. Never wear anything that
you would not want to get damaged or dirty- who knows when zombie bits could end
up on your clothes and staining them. Lastly, do not be subtle at all with your
costume.
    Remember, this world takes place multiple generations after the fall of
humanity- for most people fashion rules are completely nonexistent. Go ahead
and paint your face up, wear the football shoulder pad on your leather jacket,
and wear incredibly con icting and ugly colors. Zombies hunt mostly by smell
and movement, so screw the social norm. Wear something that you normally don’t
wear as a person so that when you do put the costume on, it feels like you are
‘stepping into character’.
    We highly suggest taking the seams and hems out of clothes so that ends
become tattered and worn. In addition, using tea to stain white clothes provides
a wonderful off color without causing your clothing to be unpleasant to wear.
Stay away from generic shirts, replace buttons so that they do not all match,
and check your clothing for thickness and durability. In a world  lled with
swarms of the undead, roadways  lled with thorns, bullets, knives in the back,
and rusty Scrapyards, clothing that can’t take a beating may not be appropriate
to wear.
    Another item that helps provide genre
to your clothing is very simple and very
inexpensive; bring a small set of scissors
with you to game as well as a needle and
different kinds of thread. When your
character is resting after a long  ght,
getting patched up, or during the breaks
where you are sitting to eat, cut
small holes in your clothing in the
locations where you have been shot
or stabbed. Then, as you continue
in character, sew up those
areas with thread that
doesn’t exactly match
the clothing you are
wearing. Use patches of
fabric, sew over larger holes or
burns, and make it so that your
clothes change to match the way
your character lives.
    Lastly, have fun with it.

69
 What is your Character?
Strains of Post-Humanity
“When the great schism hit, all those years ago, people reacted differently
depending on where they were. Most acted like idiots, running and screaming in
the streets. Fortunately, those folks aren’t around any longer.”
                                                  -Tok Tok, Pure Blood Scavenger
Around the world, societies dissolved into chaos when the dead returned from the grave. As waves of sudden mutations, undead risings, and worse began ripping through the world, it caught the population unprepared. Deep down inside, every culture thought that their government or their religion had a contingency for the end of the world. Unfortunately, nothing could have been further from the truth, and innocent and guilty alike paid the price.
    As the chaos spread, large cities were quickly overrun, and entire
populations vanished in waves of blood. The world rapidly spiraled out of
control, and once unthinkable options rapidly became horrifying realities. Only
two days after the initial outbreak, infection rates spiked across the globe.
Tokyo and London were considered lost, Washington was overrun by legions of the
dead, and New York City was quickly becoming a pit of the damned.
    It soon seemed as if the only choice available to slow the spread of the
infection and hold back the growing hordes of the shambling dead would be to use
nuclear warfare. But even this terrible solution did not stop the spread of the
virus. At ground zero the destruction was indeed complete, but those were minor
victories at best. Outside of the blast zone, in the outer rings of destruction,
the virus did what viruses do best: It mutated and spread.
    Soon the virus had hundreds of variants, and besides animating the dead,
survivors discovered that it warped the living as well. Evolutionary changes
that should have taken hundreds or thousands of years took place inside of
decades, transforming great numbers of humanity almost overnight. Some grew
tougher, capable of withstanding far more punishment than their ancestors;
others became more cunning, capable of incredible feats of skill. Throughout
these scattered populations, rumors spoke of genuine miracles performed by the
faithful- and forbidden powers unleashed by fevered, unstable minds.
    In response to this time of social and genetic chaos, faced with constant
threats both internal and external, survivors evolved rapidly, adapting to
highly specialized environments and lifestyles from underground warrens to
nomadic wandering, utter primitivism to scavenged luxury. Whether in the deep
wilds or the ruined cities, humanity endured.
70

     As the genetic building blocks of humanity have begun to unravel, now is
truly the time of the survival of the  ttest.
    Player Note: Different regions have different demographics, which may
result in Strains being limited, restricted or even prohibited to be based at
a local game. Please contact your local game director to  nd out which Strains
are playable before character creation.  Some Strains may require additional
Assistance Points and submitted Background before being approved for play.
Networked games should make this information readily available before
    attending your  rst event.
Strains and not Race
    You will notice that we always refer to Strain and not race in Dystopia
Rising. There are a thousand different reasons as to why we do not have real
world cultural races as character types, but the primary reason is to prevent
cultural appropriation and potential for insulting the culture or heritage of
real world people.
    A character can look at another character and say, ‘Hey rot face, where
is the bag that your mother put over your head?’ and chances are good that the
player of the Retrograde that is being insulted won’t take any form of personal
insult out-of-character. By removing real world races, cultural meanings, and
cultural history from the characters we are playing, we can allow for a grim and
darker world without harming real world cultural identities.
    In Dystopia Rising we have books full of cultural reference and source
material, let’s use those items instead of real world references. You will see
a number of cultural nuances in Dystopia Rising that have reference and roots
in real world cultural history. Players should always be considerate when
introducing aspects of these cultural roots to ensure that the primary body of
the materials represented are based in the Dystopia Rising universe, and not the
real world universe.

71
 Starting Statistics
Health 8, Mind 10, Infection 4
Citizens of the remains of the shore, Bay Walkers are smart and serious, highly specialized to the area where they were raised. Bay Walkers are folk raised and grown in coastal regions, along major lakes, and in territories where their cities were spared the brunt of radioactive destruction but were not spared the drowning of the rising tide waters. To Bay Walkers, the tradition of scavenging in the drowned ruins continues to this day, as old supplies are pulled up and a decent – if cloistered– existence is maintained in the wasteland.
    In areas of the Bay, the legions of shamblers that threaten most areas
are signi cantly lessened for them– slowed by the risen waters. Instead, the
Bay Walkers are constantly tested by the more specialized forms of the undead,
far more prevalent here than anywhere else for unknown reasons. From packs of
Hunters lurking in the shadows to the numberless Sleepers waiting just inches
beneath the marshy streets, most adult Bay Walkers have survived by scavenging
and building lives while being hunted, stalked, and harried by the worst of the
worst- and learning to do the same without hesitation.
    Bay Walkers are very organized and often educated people. Calm and serious,
they have a strong trust in rules and government, needing such discipline to
survive the terrors of the dead coast.  Bay Walkers, commonly found in coastal
and maritime regions, pursue a pragmatic lifestyle that rubs most city-dwelling
Yorkers wrong. The rivalries between the Bay Walkers and the Yorkers are
legendary, and in some places are stated to exist even before the fall of man.
    Bay Walkers are not restricted to having been born in The Mass, an area
thick with Bay Walker culture. In the years and generations after the fall a
number of Bay Walker families found their way to coastal settlements via ship.
In addition to the expansion of the culture of The Mass, small cloisters of
maritime-focused settlements across the globe have had near parallel evolutions
to create Bay Walkers.
Strain Requirements
Bay Walkers are typically calm and composed people, a byproduct of being terri ed for most of their early lives. Most prefer getting involved with stable groups and clear organizations, and have little patience for loners or other antisocial types. Their clothing is typically practical and sturdy, favoring subdued shades like browns and blacks, along with many, many pockets and pouches to contain whatever Scrap and scavenge comes along. After all, it’s better to grab it now rather risk death coming back for it later. All Bay Walkers have small but noticeable tattoos related to their home on visible or easily revealed portions of their bodies, both to identify themselves to other natives of the Mass and occasionally as a warning for would-be highwaymen: “This is probably not one of your better ideas.”
72

 Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Analyze Creature, Double Tap, First Aide, Instruct, Literacy, Parry
Fast Learner: Bay Walkers learn from their mistakes quickly, and are quick to wrap their minds around foreign concepts and new ideas. Learning a new
Skill or Profession takes only half the time for a Bay Walker. Moreover, they understand how to impart their knowledge most ef ciently, a serious advantage when both time and lives are on the line. A Bay Walker may expend 1 Mind Point when Teaching (or per student when using Instruct) to teach a skill that becomes immediately available instead of at the next Twelves. Players need to be sure to only purchase or teach skills that a character can learn before using this Skill (if uncertain, the Skill fails).
Old Wounds: Bay Walkers know exactly what buttons to push on Yorkers, and with that, a Bay Walker may call “Old Wounds, Triple Refuse Required” to force a Yorker to use the Refuse Skill three times in order to negate a Bay Walker’s use of the Challenge Skill.
Disadvantages
Toxic Shock: With past generations having avoided the brunt of the radiation
and surging waste common to many other locations, Bay Walkers just don’t have
the resistance of other survivors when it comes to nasty toxins and crippling
poisons. Bay Walkers suffer double damage from all sources of Toxic/Poison
damage.
A Tale of Two Cities: Bay Walkers often don’t get along with Yorkers (“Disorganized beat-
sticks”), and Yorkers don’t get along
with Bay Walkers (“Arrogant know-it-
all pricks”).
Too Clever: Bay Walkers may never possess the following Professions: Sawbones, Primitive, or Thug.

73
 Starting Statistics
Health 10, Mind 10, Infection 3
The society of the Diesel Jock is one of daredevil speed freaks, ruthless nomads, and itinerant tribal communities who have taken the Rules of the Road as the scriptures for their life. Focused on survival, family, and remaining
on the move, it is not surprising that many Diesel Jock clans have concentrated on supply trading, gun running, mercenary protection rackets, and even highway robbery. Life within the Diesel Jock community focuses on the creation, care, and preservation of the vehicles and the individual, in that order.
With life on the road being what it is, Diesel Jock youth are trained in the repair and care of the Rides often before they learn to read or  ght. Children younger than ten know how to bend Scrap and twist metal to replicate simple combustion engine pieces, and by the time a child is knee high to a moped they know how to operate a basic Forge for engine design and drive shaft production. Once a child is old enough to test for their rites of adulthood, they are brought to their tribe’s ancestral Scrap yards. The child will be provided food and drink, but is expected to craft their own tools and forge from the Scraps so that they may build their own Ride.
Diesel Jocks aren’t as warm and friendly as their Rover cousins. They can be mean, violent, and  ercely insular, but they’re also fanatically loyal and share the ideal of “my word is my bond” with their traveling counterparts. Anyone who crosses a Diesel Jock had better be prepared to deal with the whole clan. However, they can also be incredibly cold and cruel. Every Diesel Jock has a story of leaving behind a beloved clan member who had lost his or her Ride, likely to die alone in the Ruined Earth. It’s not cruel; it’s a sad necessity of life in the clan.
The vehicle (called a Ride) is the central element of a Diesel Jock’s life. When a young clan member reaches twelve years of age, he or she is presented with a working engine and taken to the “Sacred Scrapyards,” one of a dozen  ercely protected sites in the Southwest that is an endless junkyard of car parts. (The location of these yards is guarded from other scavengers and looters on pain of death.) It is expected that in the yard the child will  nd a vehicle in which they might install the engine or simply create a new vehicle piecemeal. When the child emerges with the new vehicle, there’s a huge feast and party in the child’s honor. The new Ride is christened with a name and the owner presented with gifts of parts and decor from other prominent vehicles in the clan.
Of course, not all Diesel Jocks can drive. Those who are excused from driving duties include children, the elderly, pregnant women, and those who have been injured in defense of the Clan. These passengers usually ride in a heavily armored van, bus or modi ed trolleycar. It is considered a great honor to drive the passengers, a task usually reserved for the matriarch or patriarch of a clan. The rite of passage called “Moving to the Back of the Bus” is reserved for the oldest and wisest of the Clan. What few survive to an advanced age are presented with a ceremonial map and a pair of glasses, and guide the clan as a Backseat Driver.
74

 Strain Requirements
Diesel Jocks are often adorned with weapons, armor, and equipment re tted from un xable components of their rides. They use broken drive shafts as weapons, sections of stripped metal as armor, and broken motor parts as jewelry. Diesel Jocks dress in more savage clothing than their civilized Rover cousins, wearing slapped together metal armor and leathers designed to protect and intimidate would be bandits or raiders. On the road the average Diesel Jock could be visually mistaken for a Raider at a glance. Diesel Jocks adorn themselves with banded line tattoos that cover their hands and forearms. Each ring represents a full ‘road rally’ completed around the wastelands- a multiple year trip that starts and ends in the same destination. These road rallies take years to complete. Diesel Jocks never bring their vehicles into settlements, instead keeping their rides hidden at least a day’s walk outside of town.
Advantages
Available Skills at 3 Points Each:
Balance, Bolt Action, Forging the Future, Patch Job, Trade Ties, Melee Standard
Need of Food: While the Trade Ties skill traditionally only allows Scrap to be traded for Herb, with the circles that Diesel Jocks travel in it is easier to trade Herbs for Scrap. At check in, a Diesel Jock may use the Trade Ties skill (if they have it) to trade Herb to Scrap at the same levels and restrictions as normally can be traded Scrap for Herb. Use of this Skill requires the Diesel Jock to have access to their
own crafted land vehicle, or, pay 5 Herbs per Scrap of the same level, the additional difference required to ‘bribe other Diesel Jocks’ to hitch a ride to swap meets.
Disadvantages
Road Bound: Due to their constantly moving
nature, Diesel Jocks have a dif cult time investing in locations long enough to generate a pro t. In the instance
that a Diesel Jock takes the skill Income, they will receive  nances equal to two levels LESS than what they currently
have. (Level 1 produces zero, Level 2 produces zero, Level 3 produces 1, Level 4 produces 3, Level 5 produces 6)
Endless Miles of Road: Diesel Jocks
have a unique culture that sets aside many things that you  nd in ‘civilized communities’. Due to this lifestyle to the road Diesel Jocks are banned from ever having the professions Farmer, Politician, or Publican.
Location Requirements
Diesel Jocks are only appropriate for play in
games that offer large areas of open space, do not have large numbers of trees, and are located in areas that are not overly marshy/swampy. Locations
that are more ‘urban’ focused may have
localized Diesel Jock gangs, however, Diesel
Jocks are primarily reserved for locations
that have wide open geographic locations.

75
 Starting Statistics
Health 20, Mind 10, Infection 1
The settlements of the Full Dead are a disturbing sight indeed – entire cities  lled with shambling corpses and residents just a whisper from the cold grip
of death themselves. Full Dead, named for the fact that nearly their entire body has passed away, are the closest thing to sentient zombies. Lingering on in bodies that no longer breathe, no longer bleed, and no longer subsist on conventional food, the Full Dead have only one true bodily need left: the hunger of the restless dead. The minds of the Full Dead tend to be cold and emotionless, as the lack of human daily rituals has made them feel more sympathy to full zombies than survivors of other Strains.
    Hailing primarily from London and a handful of older cities around the
world, Full Dead and the undead tend to populate the same locations. Full Dead
seem to be the last choice of food source for the undead, and have an uncanny
knack for fading into the undead hordes.
    Most of the Full Dead live a somewhat paradoxical existence, enjoying
conservative dress, good manners, and savoring the  avor of traditional food
without any actual need for it. Very few Full Dead are accepted in outside
societies, due to the fact that they are not only cannibals, but also because
they are so close to turning into mindless zombies themselves. In the back of
every Full Dead’s mind they can hear the Grave Mind of the zombie horde talking,
calling them to join the restless dead.
    Full Dead do not sleep as such, however, in its place the Full Dead
enter a trance-like state where their mind is reabsorbed into the collective
consciousness of the undead (also known as the Grave Mind). The Full Dead can
be awakened from this trance much in the same way that someone can be awakened
from slumber, but the  rst moments of a Full Dead’s return to individual
consciousness are nightmarish indeed, as they struggle to separate their own
thoughts and memories from the swirling chaos of the Grave Mind.
    In addition to the lack of traditional slumber, Full Dead do not reproduce.
While the vague desire to procreate has carried over in the dead brains of the
Full Dead, the Full Dead are completely incapable of producing or carrying
children. Full Dead, to the best of anyone’s knowledge, are long dead corpses
that expired before the Fall but have somehow slowly pulled themselves back
together via the infection. The age of the body, condition of the body, and the
infection gestation process determines if a long dead human will either rise as
a Full Dead or join the undead hordes.
Strain Requirements
Full Dead tend to dress conservatively, preferring formal attire, undertaker’s garb or even dressing as mourners and pallbearers. Players of Full Dead are required to use makeup to create a pale, corpselike complexion as well as dark, sunken eyes. Full Dead tend to remain quiet and still unless moved to take action, with little in the way of unnecessary speech or gestures. They often display an unnatural way of staring right through others. Full Dead are not easily startled and usually remain extremely civil, even in the face of hostility.
76

 Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Big Dig, Check Quality, Income, Lie, Literacy, Torture
Gnaw: Full Dead may lean over a living humanoid that has been mortally wounded (currently in Bleed Out) and declare “Gnaw 1, Gnaw 2, Gnaw 3,” slowly and clearly. This causes 1 damage point of agonizing pain to the target while the Full Dead recovers 5 points of Health.
Legion: Full Dead may expend 10 Mind Points to place their hand out, palm open. As long as their hand remains extended and they are taking no aggressive action, zombies will not attack the Full Dead. Few types of zombies are not affected, though they will usually prioritize other targets over the Full Dead if any are available (and the Full Dead avoid attention). Use of any other Skill causes Legion to end.
Disadvantages
One Of Us: First Aide, Medical Assistance, Medical Genius, and Health
restoring consumed Brews do not assist Full Dead. Neither do any consumed or
inhaled effects, including both harmful substances such as poisons and bene cial
status augmenting Brews. Faith Healing and injected Brews still aid/harm them.
Grave Mind: Full Dead constantly hear the whispers of the undead Grave Mind, and at times  nd it dif cult to see the undead as a threat.
Diverse Background: Full Dead must choose at character creation to either suffer the Retrograde ‘Rot Face,’ Lascarian ‘Light Sensitivity’, or Pure Blood ‘Weakness
to Radiation’ Flaw. High society
backgrounds would suffer from the
Pure Blood  aw; members of London’s
famed Cockney underground suffer from
‘Light Sensitivity’; and lower class longshoremen and other manual laborers
the Retrograde ‘Rot Face’.

77
 Starting Statistics
Health 6, Mind 6, Infection 5
When the infection spread at the time of the fall, Japan suffered greatly.
Due to population density, the infection spread quickly and violently across large sections of Japan. Faced with almost eighty percent infection in the  rst forty eight hours, Tokyo suffered a fate that stuck terror into the minds of the survivors: the government began to employ large scale explosives against its
own population. Japanese culture was devastated when large numbers of social, economic, technological, and philosophical advances were lost forever. Great production plants, cultural centers, and homes of scienti c advancement that
had developed from years of progress were all destroyed in the blink of an eye. Those people that survived in this horri c landscape were not the people that had eagerly embraced the advancements of man, but instead those that resided outside the cities and clung to tradition... tradition that would return with a vengeance.
In the nuclear wasteland there are those that travel with curved blades, armor that has been patched together from remnants of modern technology and ancient samurai tradition, and a sense of station that is foreign to most outsiders. The Genjian (a name derived from a term that meant ‘outsider’),  erce warriors and enigmatic lore masters, follow customs that focus around stories handed down from generation to generation. The Genjian  ght the zombie hordes  ercely yet do not truly hate the undead. They see the zombies as unfortunate souls whose spirits
have not been released from the world. It is the goal of every Genjian to scour the world, and ensure that each of their family ancestors who have risen as undead are given peace. Ancestor, while once meaning direct lineage, now means all those who share historical links.
Most Genjian originated from communities that were primarily Asian before
the apocalypse, but with the events of the fall of man many Genjian are no longer identi ed as coming from Japanese heritage. Genjian, from the old word Gaijin, refers to the fact that most Genjian come from lineages that were outside of
the cultural hubs of Japan in an attempt to repopulate the wastelands. Evolving thousands of miles away from home, or in small towns away from the major cities,
the Genjian have always felt like cultural outsiders. These days, Genjian are often more easily identi ed by their means of dress and cultural customs than their actual ancestral genetic background. They have become a philosophy and a way of life as much as a single racial or cultural identity, one that gives meaning and stability in a world too often rife with pointless violence and anarchy.
Genjian settlements are some of the best kept compounds, having kept active during the entire fall of humanity. Stories that come from the Genjian compounds often time involve a history where the Genjian people tried to repopulate the Earth during the fall, and that the same curse which causes the Genjian to rise as potent and fast zombies was once a tool to help keep the initial variants of the zombie plague at bay. Genjian were the last to give into full Strain status,  ghting for the survival of humanity for generations during the fall of mankind. Genjian bunkers can be found across the globe, with each settlement marked with its own unique ‘Mon’.
78

 Strain Requirements
Genjian dress is a mixture of both modern and ancient Asian continent cultures, particularly though not limited to the Japanese tradition. Pieced together from historical remnants and modern improvements, it is not uncommon to see a Genjian wearing a gi with a modern military helmet. Though of cially all are Genjian, as a practical matter there are two distinct movements within their culture – the so-called “Cranes”, strict traditionalists who strive to uphold the most ancient practices and philosophies of their pre-Fall cultures, and the “Tigers”, young bloods who  nd more inspiration in the culture as it was just prior to or during the Fall. Their fashion choices naturally tend to re ect these perspectives as well.
Regardless of their attitude regarding tradition, all Genjian are raised with a sense of honor and an instinct to consider their family and their settlement before themselves.
Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Analyze Creature, Bow, Brawling, Lore: Mon Histories, Melee Weapon Standard,
Sailing, Throwing
Social Observer: Genjian are well-traveled as a rule, with a keen eye for social customs. After silently watching an organized social event –dinner, religious rite, party, court, etc.– for twenty minutes, a Genjian may approach an individual and expend 5 Mind Points to utilize the Charisma Skill. They may do this more than once, provided it is during the same social event and each target is a participant. This bypasses the conversation requirement for Charisma.
Know Your Enemy: If a Genjian identi es an opponent with Analyze Creature and possesses the appropriate Lore skill for that enemy’s creature type or survivor Strain, they in ict
an additional point of damage with brawling, melee, thrown
or bow attacks against that enemy.
Disadvantages
The Long Walk: Genjian fear
that their immortal soul will be
forever damned if they become
undead. Because of this Genjian
follow a speci c ritual when
they know their time is near
(when Infection drops to 1). The
Genjian gathers their friends
together and gives away all
possessions except a single
weapon. After saying goodbye,
the Genjian  nds a silent place to commit suicide. If this rite is interrupted, or if the Genjian is stabilized or healed before  nal death, instead of being healed the Genjian immediately rises as a rank 4 Burster. (Consult the staff in advance.)
Honor Bound: Genjian do not
suffer disgrace to their family. It
is not uncommon for Genjian to demand satisfaction from or even honor duel those that besmirch their family’s name.

79
 Starting Statistics
Health 7, Mind 4, Infection 4
The Iron Slaves did not have a solid root as a people before the world fell apart; instead, they are a shining example of how the human condition continues to evolve in these modern, radioactive times. New to this generation, these unfortunate people were born into forced servitude, children and great grandchildren of slaves. Considered legal property in many industrial zones, Iron Slaves are some of the most prized targets of Slavers.
    Iron Slaves are strong people, capable of working many days without sleep.
The Iron Slaves rapidly evolved a red bioluminescence that radiates from deep
within their  esh, which aids them in the dark mines and long hours that they
work. This red glow, which is strongest around the neck, legs, and hands, is a
mark of pride for Iron Slaves, as it shows how they have become stronger despite
the cruelty of others.
Carried as a story of pride and perseverance, each Iron Slave knows how
they came to freedom. Be they tales of planned escapes, fortunate opportunities, or even rare moments of compassion, the Iron Slaves have etched every moment
of their liberation into their minds. Determined to never be enslaved again,
the Iron Slaves  nd that there is indeed a fate worse than death  and that is slavery.
    Hardened by the  res they tended, strengthened by the labor they performed,
and driven by the inhumanities they have suffered, the Iron Slaves are monuments
of strength. While seldom trained to be artisans themselves, Iron Slaves  nd
that they are very useful in regards to those who do crafting wok. Able bodied
assistants, strong laborers, and fantastic helpers– Iron Slaves learn that the
very aspects of them that make people covet them as slaves are the same traits
that make them highly desirable as employees to craftsmen.
Strain Requirements
    All Iron Slaves have scars, brands, and property tattoos in visible
locations on their body that mark them as property somewhere. Iron Slaves tend
to dress in heavy clothing, preferring styles that are utilitarian and also
allow them to be inconspicuous – as much as they can be, anyway. Every Iron
Slave also has a unique quirk that becomes noticeable in the early afternoon
through until late morning- they emit a red glow. Iron Slave players are
required to have red illumination at least as bright as a large glow stick at
each wrist, each ankle, and the neck. This glow must penetrate cloth, and be
visible at a distance.
80

 Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Brawling, Carry, Escape Bonds, Iron Fists (Pre-Req: Brawling) Refuse, Rescue, Scrounge
Able Helper: If an Iron Slave roleplays assisting someone using the Building Tomorrow or Brewing Skill, the Iron Slave may expend 2 Mind Points to reduce the production time by 10 minutes (to a minimum of 2 minutes). Each Iron Slave may only use this Skill once per item being crafted or brewed, however, other Iron Slaves may assist and stack use of this Skill (once per Iron Slave). An Iron Slave may not activate this Skill for something they are creating themselves.
Strong Back: Iron Slaves are accustomed to hard work, and for all mechanical purposes, are considered to always have a Carry of 2 instead of the standard 1 that all other strains have. At base, Carry 2 allows carrying one person at a run or two at a walk. Items may be marked with a Carry rate as well, requiring that much Carry rating to move. The skill ‘Carry’ can be used to increase this advantage for short periods of time– an increase of 1 grants an Iron Slave have a carry rate of 3, etc.
Disadvantages
Bioluminescent: Iron Slaves glow and are branded as property. Because of
these unique aspects, Iron Slaves can never use the following skills: Cover of
Night, Disguise, Fade in a Crowd, or Vanish.
Humble Roots: Due to their deprived origins, Iron Slaves may not come into play with any of the following starting professions: Caravan Driver, Distiller, Doctor, Gambler, Hook-Up, Mad Scientist, Martial Artist, Psionist, Sniper, Spy, or Tinker. These professions, if applicable, can be learned in game
via standard means. While Psionist
cannot be taught as a Profession,
items and means do exist to allow
Iron Slaves to learn Psionist
post-character creation.

81
 Starting Statistics
Health 10, Mind 5, Infection 5
When the world fell to pieces, those who would become the Lascarians found refuge in bomb shelters, subway tunnels, and lost cities beneath the surface of the earth. They survived on stocks of canned food, military grade rations, and any foodstuffs that could be scrounged- including the fallen.
    Lascarian culture is a society of scavengers and survivors, able to  nd food
and Scrap in nearly any environment and at almost any cost. The weak are culled
and left behind, while the strong are fed and cared for. Natural selection has
become more than a reality for the Lascarians– it is also a way of life.
    In the brutal world beneath the surface, the Lascarians became sure of
foot and strong of body, a necessity in the savage, lightless tunnels. Higher
education has atrophied, replaced by a reliance on the simple realities of
logistics and raw survival instincts.
    Now Lascarians send squads of scavengers out to gather supplies and bring
them back to the waiting families beneath the surface. For each Lascarian you
see above the surface, you can be sure that half a dozen wait beneath who will
never see the light of day, waiting for the shipments from the strong scouts
that were sent out.
    Lascarian culture is primitive, throwing away high culture and social
structures in exchange for savage minimalism. Weapons, food, armor, and medicine
are all that interest a Lascarian.
Strain Requirements
    Lascarians are modern primitives in every sense of the word. They dress in
dark colors, favoring ripped leathers and ragged clothes pieced together from
scraps with no regard to ‘modern’ fashion, often in numerous piecemeal layers
that only form an out t when combined. It is unusual for a Lascarian to show
much skin in any event, even during the summer months, and dark glasses or
goggles are a must for their surface trips, as well as hoods, cowls or broad-
brimmed hats to help keep off the hated sun.
    Even two Lascarians from the same clan may look completely different, given
that their fashion is almost entirely scavenged, though those that know what
to look for will usually  nd some common marker– a strip of a certain color
cloth, a painted twist of leather, a bit of rope tied around the wrist, etc.
– that indicates their common ancestry. Small trophies are also popular, worn
where they can impress friends and serve as a warning to enemies. There is no
place for a politician in the Lascarian culture, and tribes are ruled by the
strongest.
82

 Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each
Alert, Blind Fighting, Chase, Chop, Force Barricade, Melee Weapon Small Scrounge, Take Down
Cannibalism: A Lascarian can regain 2 Health Points by consuming the  esh
of a dead humanoid (not undead, downed zombies have no nutritional value), provided that it has died within 5 minutes. Only one Lascarian may regain these points per corpse – others may role play ‘digging in’ if they like, but only
one person receives the Health Points. If in doubt, the  rst person to start feeding receives this bene t. Cannibalism must be role played for at least 2 minutes. Lascarian players are encouraged to carry fake body parts on them for when a person portraying an NPC needs to quickly leave instead of waiting to be consumed. Given that former living humanoids rot into the earth 5 minutes after Killing Blow, slow reacting cannibals go hungry.
Disadvantages
Light Sensitivity: Lascarians are raised in dark underground areas, and
because of that, they must expend an additional Mind Point for every Skill they
use while the sun shines bright on them. 100% skin cover is required to avoid
this effect, even during overcast days, and dark glasses or goggles are part of
this requirement.
Savage Culture: Lascarians are banned from ever having the following Professions: Charlatan, Entertainer, Gambler, Hook-Up, Merchant, Of cer, Politician, Ring Leader

83
 Starting Statistics
Health 13, Mind 10, Infection 2
Many things were destroyed when the world broke apart. Society, culture, and education fell to pieces. As a rule, only those who were strong, smart, and lucky were able to adapt and move forward after the fall of society. However, some folks were just too damned stubborn to die.
When the apocalypse happened, some people were so pigheaded about giving
up how their life was that they outright refused. Not willing to give up their homes, their beer, and their sports teams, these people dug in and took the apocalypse on the chin. Stalwart or not, the apocalypse killed the vast majority of these stubborn people; however, some survived by sheer dumb luck and dogged determination.
Holding on to values handed down by that  rst determined generation, a pride in a country that doesn’t exist anymore, and buckets of gumption, the Mericans were forged. Not the best educated of people, and without a doubt not the most spiritually minded, this well-meaning Strain nevertheless views itself as the bastion of hope for the future. Shotgun in one hand, a beer in the other, and an eye on the neighbor’s daughter, the Mericans look to rede ne their fallen nation.
While stronger and built tougher than most Strains, the Mericans have an issue in regards to the zombie virus. Many scientists believe that sometime
in this Strain’s history there was a failed anti-virus called “high fructose corn syrup”. This substance, as well as the many other strange chemicals in a Merican’s body, results in most Mericans succumbing to the virus and joining the undead faster than other Strains. Merican zombies never progress beyond the incubation phase of the infection process, and the widespread Merican culture explains the sheer number of zombies in the shambling horde.
Mericans come from all over what was considered the pre-Fall American continent. While heartland Mericans lean towards the tradition of cowboy hats and quick guns, it is not uncommon for far south Mericans to be confused with Natural Ones. To the north, Mericans tend to lean more towards hearty jobs like being
a lumberjack while on the eastern and western coasts the Merican is often found working hard in foundries and forges.
Strain Requirements
    MERICA! Love it or get run down. Merican men and women love blue jeans,
cowboy hats, ironic t-shirts (whether or not they get it), tall boots, big
belt buckles, and gun belts with lots of  rearms. Social animals in every
sense of the term, Mericans are never more than a few paces from a bottle or
someone attractive to share it with. They have a natural distrust of authority,
especially if it isn’t another Merican in charge, and tend to mock anyone in
elegant or fancy attire, accusing them of “puttin’ on airs” and such. Well, most
fancy attire with the noted exception of hats. All Mericans respect a properly
impressive hat, though they will often bother other strains about “getting it
right” by adding eagle feathers, playing cards, bullets, written slogans, ironic
buttons and other outlandish and showy adornments.
84

     Mericans collect souvenirs from places they have visited, love to engage in
drinking and athletic contests, and seem incapable of realizing when they have
gone too far. While mistaking their conversational volume for stupidity is often
a fatal error – genuine idiots don’t tend to last long in this ravaged world –
it is true that Mericans are loud, always think they have a great idea, and in
the end look out for number one.
Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Bolt-Action, Brawling, Melee Weapon Large, Melee Weapon Two-Handed Throwing, Throwing Javelins
Merican Mob: Mericans have a tendency to celebrate in unruly numbers. Mericans gathered in celebration may regain 10 Health Points per half hour of celebration as long as  ve Mericans are part of the celebration and each has consumed at least one brewed item (requires Brew card).
Disadvantages
Social Pariah: Mericans can never tell when they are interrupting or
intruding on a private social situation, unless it is speci cally pointed out
to them. This does not mean they are deliberately rude –though they certainly
can be!– just that they have no natural ability to tell when they’re not wanted,
at least not until they’re told. Thus even well-intentioned Mericans often  nd
themselves offending others by offering advice when none is desired, approaching
people who obviously want to be left alone, or speaking up at a
gathering where they’re clearly an outsider.
Yeeeee-Haaaaaw!: Lacking subtlety, Mericans can never have the professions of Martial Artist or Spy.

85
 Starting Statistics
Health 8, Mind 8, Infection 5
When everything came crashing down, some people looked to the military or the government for safety. Others banded together and trusted each other, doing whatever it took to survive. A few, who saw this as the long-prophesied end of the world, threw themselves into the arms of their faith.
    For some, this meant death at the hands of the creatures that came with the
apocalypse. For others, this meant that they at least found peace when the bombs
began to fall. For a small group, however, it provided true sanctuary. Sanctuary
from the restless dead, sanctuary from the beasts of the fallen earth, and
sanctuary from the world that was falling around them. And when the ash began to
settle, they found themselves changed by being spared.
    Those who found themselves shielded by their faith were able to tap into
something within the human mind –or soul, as some would argue– that was not
awakened before. The mind of those of the Nation is keen, and they  nd genuine
pleasure in testing themselves and bringing aid to those who need it. As time
passed, members of the Nation took on a more iconic appearance. Their clothes,
armor, and tools are very personalized, often made by the person that wields
them and designed to match the owner’s personal habits.
    Deep within those of the Nation is strength and a desire to do what is
right, regardless of what challenges are placed in front of them. Some continue
to  ght because of those challenges; others feel they can achieve redemption by
bringing the acts of good into a godless land. This higher cause and purpose
often causes Templars to travel alone since they cannot abide those who do not
follow their strict moral codes. While those of the Nation will aid any who ask
for it, they cannot long travel with those who do not share their desire for
sel ess betterment.
Strain Requirements
    Members of the Nation of Accensor dress in utilitarian clothes –often with
a religious theme or ornamentation– follow strict moral codes, and abide by the
letter of the law of their faiths at all times. As they progress along their
path, their deep connection with their faith causes them to gradually lose
their connection with ordinary people, and they slowly become more alien in
both thought and appearance. Once a member of the Nation achieves one hundred
Experience Points expended on their sheet, that individual appears more and more
‘inhuman’ and unearthly in appearance, which must be represented with suitable
costuming and makeup.  These inhuman traits should be restricted to variations
of the  esh, sprouting new growths, and keeping to more organic and visceral
physical changes.
86

 Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Building Tomorrow, Challenge, Faith Healing, First Aide Mind Resistance, Patch Job
Meditation: An Accensor regains 5 Mind Points and 5 Health Points for
every 30 minutes in active prayer. During prayer, the Templar may take no other actions, use no skills, and must remain unmoving. They may speak brie y, but must devote the majority of their attention to silent motionless prayer. While these rituals are speci c to each person, it should be obvious through props and behavior that the Accensor is engaged in some kind of religious or meditative activity, and not simply napping or staring off into space. Sleep, day-to-day activities, and other forms of ‘I am meditating while I do other things’ are
not appropriate. The Skill meditation is an introspective and collecting of will related directly to being an Accensorite, not speci cally linked to the Accensorites morality or faith.
Blessed Life: Accensorites may begin play already baptized to one of the major in-game faiths. (Lesser faiths always require in-game baptism.) They may choose not to do so, but until they are formally baptized into some kind of faith their Meditation ability requires 1 hour of prayer or meditation instead of 30 minutes.
Disadvantages
Code of Ethics: Each Accensor has a strict moral code that they adhere
to unwaveringly, and  nd themselves alienated by
those who do not follow their zeal. Many Accensor
base their moral code on the tenets
of their faith –see the Religion
branch for details– and those
that do not follow established
larger faiths should
submit their code to the
storytelling staff for
approval, in order to
ensure that it is suitably
representative of their
strong sense of morality.
Accensorites that do not
follow their code may have
their Strain advantages
suspended until they atone.
    First In, Last Out:
Regardless of their individual
beliefs, members of the Nation
of Accensor always put the
well-being of others of their
faith above their own. An
Accensorite cannot tend to
their own wounds until all
other injured members of
their own faith that are
present are taken care of.

87
 Starting Statistics
Health 10, Mind 6, Infection 4
Some wise men say that the fall of man was the fault of the mad, unrestrained hand of “science” and “progress.” As the bombs fell and the hordes came, shattering the landscape and destroying the world as it once was, there were those who took that wisdom to heart. They went back to the basics, living off the land and  nding oneness with the earth.
    These nomadic peoples survived by retreating to the deep wilderness and wide
open plains, forming tight communities, gangs, mottles and troupes to survive
together in an unforgiving and forever changed world. Choosing a personal style
of  ghting from adolescence onward, they lived by the blade instead of the gun,
never wasting what precious few resources they could still  nd. The Natural
Ones found that they could live a simpler life (many would say an easier life),
unfettered by the need for fanciful technologies of the past and meaningless
luxuries.
    The Natural Ones developed a bond with the earth, and each other. It
was only a matter of time before tribes would meet on regular intervals of
the seasons. These gatherings bring the wandering tribes together, to trade,
matchmake, and test themselves against one another and the elements in
celebration of their survival as a whole.
    The Natural Ones are a pragmatic people, and might makes right by nature’s
law. What cannot be settled peacefully is settled in ceremonial combat, overseen
by tribal elders and leaders. In the spring of each year, the ceremonial combat
takes a different tone, serving as both celebration and a system by which new
leaders, champions and suitors are chosen amongst the warriors of the tribes.
Through the massive three day feast, participants duel for glory and prestige,
with the outcomes affecting the future of the tribes, as new bonds are forged,
new leaders chosen, and the strong given a chance to rise.
Strain Requirements
    All Natural Ones must have a prominent tribal society mark, including but
not limited to such elements as prominent tattoos, scari cation, body paint, use
of particular colors, clothing styles, trophies, etc. It is also very common for
tribal members to display unique accents, slang terminology, or religious views
as further means of establishing their identity. Tribal society marks are not
subtle at all, by design– they are intended to clearly identify an individual as
part of a greater whole, and are a source of great pride to members. Insulting
a tribal society mark is a fast way to earn a dire enemy, if not immediately
result in drawn blood. Players should work with staff and other members of their
tribe to design an appropriately vivid tribal society mark that is unique to
their tribe.
88

     Apart from their marks, Natural Ones tend to favor simple, primitive
clothing and adornments, with rough but durable furs and leathers being common,
and rarely carry items that don’t have a practical use. While they can wear more
modern clothing and equipment, they favor utilitarian pieces, and often do so
in a distinctly primitive style –draping a jersey like a toga, for example– or
completely transform it with primitive elements like paint, trophies, knotwork
and beading. In addition, Natural Ones adhere to the spring high holiday every
year, regardless of where they are. In societies where not many Natural Ones are
around, prominent warriors of other strains are invited as guests at a Natural
One’s table.
Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Cure Toxins, Melee Weapon Large, Melee Weapon Small, Melee Weapon Standard,
Melee Weapon Two-Handed, Throwing, Throwing Javelins
Natural Aim: Due to their incredible skill with primitive weapons, Natural Ones do one additional point of damage with bows, melee, and thrown weapons.
Disadvantages
Shun the Boomstick: Bolt Action and all ranged skills (requiring technology)
cost double the number of Experience Points to purchase.
Xenophobic: Anyone not of your tribal structure, even if they are other Natural Ones from different societies, is treated with a degree of distrust.
Backward: Natural Ones may not begin play with the Mad Scientist, Engineer or Gun Slinger professions, though they may acquire them later during play.

89
 Starting Statistics
Health 6, Mind 12, Infection 3
Being the top dog has its perks, especially if you were one of the precious few with enough money to ensure your safety and luxury was protected behind high walls, armed guards, and sealed bulkheads. That top creme de la creme knew the right people, had all their pieces in place, or simply had the good fortune of just being ahead of the game. They survived with their lifestyle intact while the world around them burned. They watched from their strongholds and waited until they could capitalize on this turn of fortune.
As resources dried up, these families ensured that water still ran clean in their homes. When munitions were scarce, they kept mercenaries employed to control the  ow of weapons. When societies began to rise from the ashes, they arranged their elevated position in society through the resources they controlled. These families were controlling, sophisticated, and most importantly, pure. The Pure Bloods were made of the  nest of the old world, and they had what it took to bring order to the rabble.
Pure Blood families are most often found among the leadership of settlements, with carefully orchestrated pairings to ensure beauty, wits and charm get them and their lines all that they desire. They are distinguished by their dress, clinging
to old symbols of status and wealth, forgoing more sensible and utilitarian fashions and trusting their guards and minions to do the heavy lifting for them. Material wealth is second only to the power of the family line in Pure Blood social circles, and wealth must be demonstrated at all times.
This game of plumage and af uence leads to all manner of complicated politics among Pure Blood lines. Some lesser known lines become indentured to more famous and powerful families through arranged marriages and intricate business deals. These things are never discussed in mixed company, of course, and much is left to speculation as to how the Pure Bloods sort out who is truly the most powerful. What no one contests is that Pure Bloods have maintained a unique level of social grace and business acumen as a result of their rari ed and sheltered growth as a people.
Strain Requirements
    Pure Blood characters must dress in an eccentric high style that suggests a
rich lineage – business suits, formal wear, steampunk attire, or other expensive
looking clothes are de rigeur for the ruling elite of the apocalypse. They shun
monochromatic out ts, favoring plenty of color to catch the eye, and eccentric
uses of makeup and oversized jewelry also allow these peacocks to attract the
attention and respect they feel is their natural right. Above all, there is the
family – whether the character is a favored son or on the run, a Pure Blood’s
lineage is never far from his thoughts. Even those that distance themselves from
their family often take a perverse degree of pride in their roots; for better
or worse, their family has made them what they are today. Indeed, a degree of
greed, pride in your family name, as well as a natural insight into networking
are all encouraged for each Pure Blood.
90

 Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Backstab, Bolt-Action, Charisma, Cheat, Check Value, Income, Literacy
Investment: All Pure Bloods receive one additional Local Currency for each level of Income they have.
Disadvantages
Weakness to Radiation: When the apocalypse began, the Pure Bloods were
con dent that strong walls and hardened mercenaries could keep raiders and
zombies at bay, but they were terribly paranoid regarding the unseen threat
posed by radiation. Most took extreme precautions to avoid even mild exposure,
and many families still shun the slightest contact with radiation in order
to prevent the “pollution” of their bloodline due to mutation. Because of
this, Pure Bloods have not been hardened to radiation nearly as much as other
survivors, and suffer terribly in its presence, sometimes as much from fear and
anxiety as actual harm. All damage (to armor or health) done by radiation causes
the loss of an equal number of Mind Points. This very quickly makes a Pure Blood
near useless in “hot” parts of the wasteland.
Peacocks: Pure Bloods pride themselves on their fashion. Any time that
a Pure Blood is not wearing at least 4 different visible colors (of sizable portions), elaborate jewelry, and/or extensive makeup, the Charisma skill costs double for the underdressed Pure Blood, and using Refuse against the Charisma skill of other Pure Bloods also costs double. When costuming, please keep the genre aesthetics in mind.

91
 Starting Statistics
Health 8, Mind 13, Infection 2
The Reclaimers are a proud people who take their genetic source from the ancestry of the pre-fall cities of Montreal, Toronto, and Winnipeg. While culturally the three different pre-fall populous were as varied as day is to night, the way in which the infection was introduced into the territories bordering on the Frozen North is reported to be the same.
The plague which ravished mankind and brought about the end of ‘humans’ did not evolve originally in the Reclaimer homes. These territories, due primarily to  erce winters and having a healthier people, were sadly dragged into the plague of mankind due to overloaded borders. As the fungal infection caused the undead to rise from the grave and twisted the  rst generation of humanity into horri c cannibals, those who were looking to escape the plague surged northward. Many of those that were looking to escape the plague were already carriers of the deadly spores within their lungs, carrying the plague northward. Within the warm bodies of the infected the plague was able to not only mutate to adapt to their environment but also  nd means to spread to the ancestors of the Reclaimers.
The  rst Reclaimers initially contracted the infectious plague when  ghting against the southern in ux of Mericans who threatened to overtake the northern cultural centers. While the ancestors of the Reclaimers had successfully fought the infected away from the borders of their civilizations, this resistance was at a heavy cost. The  rst outbreaks of the infection claimed tens of thousands of those that had fought on the front lines. Initially there were outbreaks of blood red blisters erupted along the hands, arms, and shoulders of the infected. Doctors theorized that a combination of engaging the sieging southern threat in close combat action combined with hauling the bodies of the fallen had allowed the infection to spread.
It was a death sentence to be ‘caught red handed’, as even the compassionate cultures of the north had no choice but to euthanize or exile individual that showed signs of infection. Hundreds of thousands of families suffered the agony of seeing their loved ones forced beyond the gates of the great cities, given enough gear and supplies to face off against the undead threats of the new wasteland. The choice of an instant death or a chance of protecting their culture caused many a terminally infected person to walk into the wastes thinking they would never return.
With years passing and more and more people showing the signs of infection, small communities of infected not unlike leper colonies began to form. Waiting for the plague to take its bloody cost, these communities formed as a means to defend their uninfected loved ones from both the undead and living threats. However, death by infection never came for the  rst Reclaimers. Their hands and arms permanently discolored crimson and showing a leathery degeneration, it seemed as if the  rst Reclaimers had built up a resistance to the plague that had claimed so many.
As the generations moved forward, the untainted ‘humans’ of the  rst generation slowly began to fall to the threats of the wasteland while the ‘Reclaimers’ were found to be more resilient to the threats of the wastes. It is said that at the end of the third generation the last ‘human’ was born in Thunder Bay, and that the child lived for all of  ve minutes.
92

 Strain Requirements
Reclaimers are born with a severe discoloration and warping of their arms. From shoulder to  nger tips the Reclaimers arms are a mottled deep crimson in color. The  esh of the arms is pocked as the upper most layers of the skin pull open, leaving
a torn net of pocked leathery  esh and muscle. Makeup and costuming is required if exposed, or, gloves worn must go from the bicep to the  nger tips to cover this area.
Pure Reclaimers are born with either piercing blue or silvery gray eyes. Those born without blue or silver eyes are considered of mixed or impure heritage. This coloring is well beyond the spectrum of most normal eyes, and requires contacts for portrayal.
Due the extended musculature of the back and shoulders of the Reclaimer, the strain tends to stand perfectly upright without slouching or leaning. Strain and exhaustion tends to  nd itself primarily in the back, shoulders, and legs of the Reclaimers due to their unique musculature. To combat the long term tiring of the back and torso, often times Reclaimer laborers bind themselves in belting and corseting that supports the back and shoulders.
Advantages
Available Skills at 3 Points Each:
Balance, Carry, Charge, Melee Standard, Hunters Mark, Avoid
Dead Nerves: At the cost of 10 Mind Points, Reclaimers may call ‘Dead Nerves’ as a response to Sunder Limb or Mangle Limb. The effect of the Mangled Limb or Sunder Limb is negated, as if the strike or ranged attack had been parried or avoided. In the instance that an effect would trigger multiple
Mangled or Sundered Limbs in a single attack, on a
single use of Dead Nerves is required. Dead Nerves
must be recorded the same as per any other Skill use.
Dead Nerves may be used during Bleed Out or while
unconscious as long as the Skill response is
declared within 3 seconds of the attack/
effects use.
Disadvantages
Selective Breeding: The Reclaimers are accustomed to being ‘us versus them’ in regards to survival. Due
to their secluded nature, it
is dif cult for Reclaimers
to truly open up to outsiders (non-Reclaimers). Due to this
social echo-chamber, uses of Charisma and Entertain cost 10 Mind Points when targeting non-Reclaimers.
Location Requirements Reclaimers are commonly found in
or close to Canada.

93
 Starting Statistics
Health 6, Mind 6, Infection 6
When order was needed and resources became scarce, those that lived in communities accustomed to limited rations and sharing among smaller groups were already
well adapted for survival. The most cut-throat and ef cient communities were
able to thrive, keeping properties tightly held within the group while those that opened their door to outsiders often fell. Localized communism, and tightly knit communities, exist all across the fallen wastelands.
Red Star travel in small groups that are tighter than the standard family structure. Every member of a Red Star family structure is not only considered equal, but they are also considered part of a polygamist commune. Children are raised by the cell until the time at which they are considered adults, and are expected to travel from the commune to join or begin another. Sometimes “trades” are made where family members move between cells in order to ensure suitable breeding stock is maintained.
Those of the Red Star are at heart a martial people, focusing on the pragmatic needs of their cell instead of succumbing to temptation and escapism. They are often considered grim or somber to outsiders, with men and women both displaying an external strength and a demeanor of cold logic. With their eerie harmony, dour attitudes and striking appearance, a cell of Reds always makes an impression wherever they travel.
Found in the remains of Westernized communes, rural centralized communities, or
in the frozen wastelands the Red Star are a culturally varied people. While the Red Star embrace unity, togetherness, and the abandonment of the capitalist system, it is not completely unheard of for Red Star to allow non-Red Star to serve their communes. These non-Red Star, while not completely equal, are considered useful tools and allies in ensuring the growth and strength of the individual cell.
Strain Requirements
Those born of the Red Star are as deadly as the reaping scythe and as hard as
the hammer that crosses it. They prefer dark, modest clothes that do not show much skin or accent their  gure, almost exclusively in red and black. (Military olive drab sometimes appears when large amounts of black would be impractical, such as hot summer months.) Those of the Red Star tend to speak very directly and expect the same honesty in return, giving them a reputation as a stern, humorless people. In truth, away from the eyes of outsiders they can be as warm and effusive as any other Strain, but only to other Red Star.
Red Star live in small communes, sharing all property with their cell members
and reaching decisions as a group. Individual leaders are chosen only when absolutely necessary, and are expected to step down once the current crisis passes. Red Star do not believe in independent marriage, and instead are considered collectively “wed”
to all other eligible members of their cell. This is not a hedonistic arrangement, but simple practicality – Red Star see the jealousy and interpersonal rivalries that accompany exclusive romantic relationships as poisonous to the overall solidarity of the cell. Red Star do not follow these guidelines out of choice, but instead are a requirement of every Red Star.
94

 Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Avoid, Barricade, Bomb Awareness, Brewing, Fearful Glare Frightening Force, Melee Weapon Large
Collective Pride: Members of the Red Star cells are deeply linked to one another, and that loyalty has strength. No effects can ever force a member of the Red Star to attack or betray their fellow Red Star, not even zombi cation.
Disadvantages
Reject Free Enterprise: Reds do not believe in capitalist systems and as a
result reject the capitalist free market. Red Star may not possess nor accept
any forms of currency (credits, gems, marks, etc.) nor willingly partake in the
capitalist free market by charging other ‘trade’ for labor or goods. The goal is
to provide for your cell and to have your cell provide for one another, not to
generate a pro t.
Opiate of the Masses: Reds can never follow any faith or religion, nor
can they ever have the following professions: Caravan Driver, Charlatan, Entertainer, Gambler, or Priest. In addition, Red Star may never receive the bene ts of faith powered Skills (Call the All Mighty, Faith Healing, Holy Rites, Live Again, Life Giver).

95
 Starting Statistics
Health 5, Mind 5, Infection 6
As humanity staggered from one disaster to another, attempting to survive the apocalypse, people tended to stick together. Communities, religions, and even whole nations arose to assist members in their daily  ght for survival. While most survivors eventually fell in with one of the groups that would become the nations of the fallen lands, facing down radiation, riots, and undead hordes together, such was not the case for everyone.
    Wanderers who adhere to their own worldview and do not  t in with any of the
established Strains, Remnants are more the lack of a de ned Strain than a true
Strain unto itself. Remnants can come from just about anywhere, representing a
tremendous range of cultures and making each Remnant as unique and individual as
falling radioactive snow akes. While this personalized culture offers much in
the way of diversity, it also causes a sense of separation.
    Remnants sometimes result when an individual manifests genetic or
psychological variations that set them too far apart from their community, such
as a Retrograde who isn’t physically twisted, or a Natural One that possesses a
natural talent and instinct for technology. Remnants of other cultures, while
not always immediately ostracized, do not receive either the bene ts or the
drawbacks of their parent Strain.
    Ironically, Remnants tend to make up for their lack of clearly de ned roots
by taking intense pride in their origins and their social views. A remnant with
mixed strain ancestry may take pride in the fact that their parents came from
two distinctly different cultures.
Strain Requirements
    Remnants do not have a single form of dress, appearance, or social structure
that sets them apart from the crowd, other than the fact that they do not adhere
to the appearance of the majority Strains. Remnants are known to have mild
mutations in regards physical appearance, with certain physical aspects becoming
more pronounced. In addition new physical growths sometimes occur such as small
horns, mild skin discoloration, unique social quirks, and mental abnormalities.
Rare social origins, extreme mutations and other cosmetic aspects for your
character require staff approval before arrival at game.
    As a whole, Remnants can be as eccentric or plain as you can imagine –
however they cannot imitate unique physical quirks of other Strains. Remnants
cannot have the glow of an Iron Slave, rotted appearance of a Retrograde, light
sensitivity of a Lascarian, or the visual apparitions of faith of a veteran
Accensor.
96

 Advantages
Dabbler: Remnants start with two Professions instead of the standard one.
Disadvantages
Rootless: Remnants do not have any Strain Skills, and by that, cannot self-
teach.
Love Me: In hopes of  nding a means of acceptance, all Remnants must join an organized faith as soon as possible once they enter play. Remnants will generally put extra effort into being recognized by other members of their faith, though generally not to overzealous or antisocial extremes. Should a Remnant not have been baptized into a recognized faith by their sixth game event, they lose all access to or bene ts from any Skills from their second Profession, and cannot learn any new Skills for that Profession until they are so baptized. Only events attended as the Remnant character count toward this time limit – missed events or events played as a different character do not count.
    If a Remnant leaves their faith later on during play, willingly or
otherwise, this should be marked as “Crisis of Faith” on their card. Once again
they have  ve events to join another religion or lose the bene ts of their
second Profession. This includes the event where their faith was lost.
    This disadvantage never affects a third Profession. It does not
automatically affect Advanced Professions – unless the lost Profession is
prerequisite. If so, the character loses access to their Advanced Profession
so long as they are also denied the use of their second
Profession.
Not Like the Others: As noted previously, Remnants may not have unique physical appearance traits speci c to other Strains (red glow, rotted faces, angelic traits, etc).

97
 Starting Statistics
Health 10, Mind 10, Infection 4
When the dead began to walk the earth and the bombs began to drop, many cities were lost. Due to the cities’ vast population, and the number of dead that had been buried, there was little that could be done by most to survive. Those with enough money locked the doors behind them as they ran into their gilded cages. Those who were on the outer fringes and could leave the dangerous zones did so without ever looking back. But for those who lived in the inner city, or the
vast metropolises around the world... there was no place to run to. So they did what they could– they dug in and they clung to one another as though their lives depended on it.
    Retrogrades survived years of radiation, disease, scrounging for essential
supplies, and dealing with the shambling hordes on a daily basis. Being
exposed to some of the worst strains of the virus, the Retrogrades began to
take on corpse-like features. Those that survived the days and nights became
harder, stronger, and more willing to do whatever it takes to survive. As their
faces became more skeletal and more hideous, the Retrogrades needed a way to
distinguish themselves from the restless dead, to prevent themselves from being
cut down when scavengers started to return. To identify themselves as not
among the dead, it became custom to wear masks, to not only hide their hideous
features but also to signify that they were not to be shot on sight.
    These masks, unique and bright, signal to the inhabitants of towns that the
Retrograde who wears the mask is indeed a sentient person instead of one of the
walking dead. Some Retrogrades wear bright beautiful masks to mock outsiders who
cannot see beyond their scarred image. Other Retrogrades wear minimalist masks,
just enough to cover the mouth region, to signal that they are not carnivorous
corpses. A small percentage of Retrogrades do not wear masks at all, but instead
 aunt their rotted skin in the faces of all others as a political gesture.
Unfortunately, most of this third group  nd themselves at the business end of a
shotgun.
Strain Requirements
    All Retrogrades have skeletal features, sunken faces, and even mottled,
corpse-like skin. To avoid getting shot due to being mistaken for a zombie,
Retrogrades have taken to wearing a variety of masks, often painting them as
a sort of second face. Gas masks, opera masks, elaborate veils, hockey masks,
archaic helmets, surgical masks, wrapped scarves, rebreathers – the choices are
nearly endless, and often re ect the personality and history of the individual
Retrograde more than they might believe. Unmasked Retrogrades must use some
form of makeup, facial prosthetic and/or skeletal mask to show their zombie-
like appearance. There should be no question that an unmasked Retrograde has a
clearly damaged, corpselike face; many will use similar makeup on exposed skin
as well (though this is not required).
98

     Apart from their use of masks –or decision not to use one– Retrogrades have
no dominant fashion. Some favor a practical or military look, while others echo
the style of dominant strains where they were raised, such as wearing Merican
hats or horrible Vegasian fabrics. In no event should a Retrograde be easily
mistaken for another Strain, however – their distinctive mask or their hideous
unmasked appearance should always be a dead giveaway.
Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Barricade, Cover of Night, Disguise, Escape Bonds, Feign Death Melee Weapon Standard, Scrounge
Half-Life: Retrogrades take half damage from all Radiation sources, rounded down.
Disadvantages
Rot Face: Retrogrades are hideously mutated and have the effective
appearance of undead. In a shoot  rst and don’t ask questions environment, this
often causes a fatal  rst impression.
Unfriendly Face: Retrogrades must expend two additional Mind Points when attempting to use Charisma when not wearing a mask.
    Warning: Retrogrades all become particularly dangerous
types of zombies after the infection takes a strong
enough hold- and everyone knows it. Some cities order
that any Retrogrades that fall during combat are
not to be allowed to get back up, and
Retrogrades emerging from the Morgue
can expect to be greeted with extreme
suspicion if not outright hostility
until their living status is veri ed.

99
 Starting Statistics
Health 8, Mind 8, Infection 4
The Wastelands of the world are populated by more than hordes of undead, sparse villages, and mutated beasts. Trade and information are the blood of this blasted world, it’s said, and caravans are its veins. If that’s true, then Rovers are the heart that keeps the whole thing pumping. Rovers are instrumental in maintaining the few caravan routes in this ravaged world. More importantly however, these extended families have thrived in those places least touched by the horrors of the past, where plants still grow wild, and the shambling hordes have dif culty reaching.
From mountaintops to hidden ravines, the Rover families maintain stopovers for many scavengers and caravan drivers besieged by packs of Hunters or just in need of supplies. From these way stations they trade goods for information and safety. And yet despite their seclusion, they maintain a healthy respect for the successes of the past, even when staring down the vacant, hungry stare of its failures.
Generosity and honor bring respect, while rudeness and hoarding brings contempt. This is the encompassing ethos of Rovers, and it is for this reason that Rover hospitality is justly legendary. How well one treats their guests, charges, or employees is a measurement of a host’s virtue, the worth of one’s reputation. A guest can expect safety, politeness, and food when placed in the care of a Rover, even if that guest is their mortal enemy. A Rover would rather know thirst and starvation than breach the laws of hospitality.
This same courtesy is expected in return, however, and it is assumed that guests will be on their best behavior and not overstay their welcome. To do otherwise is horribly rude by Rover standards. Deals and agreements are much the same– if hospitality is the civilizer of society, they are the tempered steel. Any deal a Rover makes can be counted on to be ful lled to the letter, and punished in kind if broken.
This isn’t to say that all Rovers will hand the  rst person that asks of them everything they own, allow themselves to be taken advantage of, or cannot be the most dastardly of Merchants. They do not feel any need to offer hospitality to the undead, or bloodthirsty Raiders, or enemies openly attacking them. It does mean that they will think themselves lesser persons to not offer the best they can to those that come into their homes or charge.
Strain Requirements
    All Rovers possess a number of rules of hospitality they abide (and expects
other to abide) by at all times, be it keeping weapons and boots off their
tables, never spilling drink, or cleaning blood from face and weapon as soon as
con ict is settled. They can be rude, angered, shunning and even unwelcoming,
but such acts are reserved for those who repeatedly and willfully disregard
their laws of hospitality or lay them repeated insult– Rover shunning and
justice can be terrifyingly meticulous, and word spreads very quickly among all
their Strain. For clothing, warm and cream colors are favored, with scarves and
abundant lengths of cloth popular in any weather.
100
     It is said that many Rover caravans also use their scarves to pass
discreet messages, with the color, placement and even knot-work of each sash
providing such details as marital status, occupation, places visited and
even local hazards to those who know how to read them. As each group has
its own variations, cataloging the code is virtually impossible, making it
a surprisingly secure way of passing on information. Players are encouraged
to develop their own “sash code” for their character’s particular family or
caravan.
Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Bartender’s Tongue, Check Your Sleeves, Head Shrink, Melee Weapon Small Refuse, Scrounge
Bond of Salt: To share food and drink with someone is to take responsibility for them, and often their well-being is more important than a tarnished reputation. Once per Twelves, a Rover may opt to lose up to 10 Health to allow another to recover the same. This advantage requires food or drink to be consumed at the Rover’s home/campsite/place of business and at least 10 minutes of roleplay.
Disadvantages
Bond of Salt: If a Rover consumes food or drink from an individual, all
skills that would adversely affect the
sharer cost 2 additional Mind Points
for the next hour or while they
remain in their home/campsite/place
of business (whichever is longer).
Word of Bond: If any deal
a Rover makes is broken by the other party, they will pursue justice and exact reparation until the wrong is redressed
to their satisfaction, with two-fold rancor. Further, a
Rover cannot willingly break a formal deal that is shaken on under any circumstance. If fate prevents them from keeping their word, they make no excuses, and will seek to right the wrong immediately, to the exclusion of all else. Skills and effects may force a Rover to fail to uphold their word; however, they still feel obligated to either complete the deal or to right the wrong.

101
 Starting Statistics
Health 13, Mind 8, Infection 3
The Salt Wise are an ocean born strain of what was once humanity, which lives the majority of its life out to sea on massive community sized vessels. Intending to keep themselves removed from the plague, eventually this plan fell short when landing parties carried dormant plague spores back to the ships. Mutated by the infection carrying plague early on, the Salt Wise adapted to the Ocean’s depth within the  rst generation of ship-born descendants born after the fall of man.
The Salt Wise tribes grew from communities of the infected born from the water adaptive survivors of the  rst plague. The children of the  rst survivors who began
to show signs of mutation at birth, and survived being ostracized and cast out from the ocean born human tribes.
Generation after generation the Salt Wise tribes became bound, and often named after, the settlements and communities they were born to. Surrounding and living in  otilla townships, small islands, pre-fall platforms, and makeshift cities out to sea, the Salt Wise became a network of tribal minded communities not too unlike the dock worker cultures of The Mass or even the gangs of Old York. Each community, based on an area, trusted only its community members for survival. While the Salt Wise would make deals with outsiders, unless someone was accepted into their ranks the partnerships they held were considered bonds of convenience at best.
As the population of the Salt Wise has grown, so has the spread and need of the communities. Salt Wise settlements have been found closer to the shores of populated mainland, even building shipping towns on the shore itself. The Salt Wise will never abandon their salt laden oceanic homes, however, since their lives are bound to the Ocean.
The Salt Wise are one of the few ‘Global Communities’ that travel freely along the coasts of many continents. While it is not unheard of for the Salt Wise to do trans- continental trips, it is rare. Even for the sea born Salt Wise; traveling across
the ocean, completely away from shore, requires an extensive number of supplies and resources that make the trip not worth the expenses.
Due to their ties to the Drowned Saints region, as well as their ability to travel and carry water born supplies, the majority of Salt Wise have been inducted into Guild Membership. As members of organizations such as Murder Inc, the Wet-Works, and other local branches of the greater Guild, the Salt Wise have learned to master discretion and work under a code of silence.
Strain Requirements
All Salt Wise are androgynous, appearing as either male with very female features or females with masculine features. Salt Wise have developed gills in addition to their fully functioning lungs, and due to this, do not like high collar clothing or materials that surround the neck. Salt Wise dress in layers, making their out ts easy to remove in pieces. Salt Wise have a second white membrane that covers their entire eye. These membranes extend when the Salt Wise has spent more than a day on land or is under water.
102

 Advantages
Available Skills at 3 Points Each:
Sailing, Fishing, Lore: Aquatic, Melee: Small, Guild Membership, Lie, Escape Bonds
Oceanic Masters: Salt Wise using the Fishing Skill may utilize thrown weapons, melee two handed, javelins, or bolt action weapons instead of a  shing pole physical representation. When  shing the Salt Wise using a two handed melee weapon, thrown weapon, or bolt action weapon instead of a  shing pole physical item, the Salt Wise may spend an additional 5 Mind Points per use of the Fishing skill reduce the time required for  shing to 1 minute. This Skill does not lower the required roleplaying time for  shing augments such as Boats, Gizmos, or Unique Items. If a Salt Wise is gaining the advantage of these unique augment items, then the Salt Wise may not bene t from the Oceanic Master time reduction.
Water Breathers: Salt Wise are immune to damage taken from ‘Pull Under’ as well as most forms of drowning damage.
Disadvantages
Ocean Bound: Salt Wise cannot spend extended time away from the open ocean. Salt
Wise do not refresh Mind Points at the 12s if they are at an event that is more than 75 miles from the ocean (must be ocean). Due to the shifts and changes of post-apocalypse maps, players and branches should use real world shore to game site measurements to determine if this  aw applies.
Debts Owed: Most Salt Wise tribes owe debts to organizations such as the Guild and Murder Inc. With many of their family members actively working with or for Murder Inc., Salt Wise pay the ultimate price if one of their family members
fails to pay their debts. At times Directors or assigned Storytellers
may provide tasks to players of
Salt Wise that must be completed
without reward. If these tasks are
not completed, the repercussions
of failure may involve back story
family being punished or contracts
being leveled against any number
of Salt Wise in play. These
assignments from Murder Inc. do not require the Salt Wise to be a Guild Member, or to even be an assassin type character.
Location Requirements
Salt Wise are appropriate for play in maritime locations and areas within short distance of the Ocean. Fresh water does not count.

103
 Starting Statistics
Health 10, Mind 10, Infection 3
Before the Fall of Man, a few hundred thousand individuals were placed into a cryogenic state of suspended animation. Some of these individuals chose to be frozen because they were sick and dying and were in possession of enough money
to allow for private companies to ensure their bodies were suspended in a form
of undeath. Other cryogenically frozen individuals were part of scienti c and military programs that hoped to preserve human life until after the infection had come and gone from the earth.
    In the fourth generation since the Fall, the majority of these suspension
chambers have given up the ghost. Having  nally lost power, run out of chemical
supplies, or reacting to automated activation controls, the cryogenic suspension
control chambers have ceased to operate. This was unfortunate for those
individuals suspended within the sleep chambers.
    For better or for worse, many of these slumbering individuals never awoke.
Beyond the ability to be recovered, the frozen bodies of the cryogenically
suspended simply thawed and began to rot. For those that did become infected
however, the awakening in the post-Fall world was horri c. The once slumbering
escapees from a lost time were ravaged by the infectious plague, and became host
for the mutated plague that had caused the gradual transformation of the other
strains of humanity.
    The minds of the Semper Mort were ravaged by both the virus and the process
of being awakened from suspended animation. Knowledge of former communities,
technology, and lives before the Fall were completely eradicated in only a few
moments. For those that had been stored in cryogenic sleep as just a head or a
partial form, the  rst active memories the Semper Mort had were those of the
painful process of their bodies re-growing from the curse/gift of the infection.
    The undying strain of humanity known later as the Semper Mort climbed out
from their technological crypts like babes newly born to the world. With a
hunger driven by the infection, suspended between life and death, the Semper
Mort emerged from the remains of humanity like a nightmare from legends past.
Living, but in need of blood to offset the anemia from the suspension process,
the Semper Mort now live and reproduce as other Strains would but have an
insatiable hunger for the blood of the living.
Strain Requirements
    Semper Mort are babes in the post-Fall world, and due to their unique
condition are often regarded with fear and disgust. With no origins that they
can hold to, no memories of growing up, and no knowledge of their past, the
Semper Mort tend to approach life slowly and with a degree of distrust. All
Semper Mort must have enlarged fangs in their mouth, either a full set with
every tooth sharpened or a pair of pointed fangs, and must depict their twisted,
clawed hands as well. With a hunger for the blood within the bodies of the
living, the Semper Mort have a dif cult relationship with most other Strains,
similar to that of the Full Dead and to a degree the Lascarians.
104

 Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Brawling, Charisma, Chase, Iron Fists, Nerve Punch, Tie Binds
Hunter’s Claws: All Semper Mort have twisted hands and pronounced nails,
but some develop these claws into dangerous weapons. If a Semper Mort learns the Brawling Skill, they can use claws as base 3 damage weapons. Red brawler beaters are used as the physical representation of these claws. Knucks cannot be used on claws, but applied poisons may be used on them. The Iron Fists Skill is still required to block using claws without taking damage.
Mortal Bonds: Semper Mort may heal 1 point of Health by draining 2 points of Health by biting living targets and draining their blood. This attack requires the use of their Hunter’s Claws (and thus the Brawling Skill) by striking with both red brawler beaters at the same time. If both beaters strike their target, the Semper Mort is considered to have grabbed the target with both claws and can bite the target. The Semper Mort does not need to strike again, but instead just holds both beaters on the target and counts for three seconds: “Bite 1, Bite 2, Bite 3, 2 damage”. If the target breaks free of either brawler, the bite comes to an end.
Blood is the Life: Semper Mort in Bleed Out may be stabilized as though First Aide had been used on them by having someone feed 10 Health points of blood from damage. Note that blood cannot be carried or preserved in-game without use of a suitable recipe or device.
Disadvantages
Curse of Slumber: All
Semper Mort begin play with the
Derangement: Amnesia, which can
never be soothed or removed. All
knowledge of existence prior to
becoming Semper Mort is lost
forever.
Predator’s Need: Semper Mort may not gain the advantage of any bene cial ingested Meals or Brews unless they consume blood worth at least 10 Health of damage from a living target immediately before consumption. This does not apply to poisons and harmful substances.
Twisted Hands: Semper Mort can never learn the Pugilist profession, cannot use Knucks (with or without their claws), and may not begin play with the Martial Artist profession.

105
 Starting Statistics
Health 6, Mind 6, Infection 4
Before the fall of man, there existed a number of cultures that were  nancially oppressed by the wealthy and the well-to-do. The ancestors of the Solestros were
a people treated unjustly, as lesser, and unfairly controlled by the rich and socially powerful. The ancestors of the Solestros would labor, and tend to the needs of the rich, without ever truly being able to reap the fruits of their own labors. All along the territory that would stretch from what is now known as the city of Fallen Angels, down to the territories of Bravo and the Sunken Saints, the Solestros came to be.
The Solestros are only a slight variation of genetics from the Pure Blood. If one were to look at the evolution of the Solestros, one would  nd that the Solestros appear to be Pure Bloods who have been able to adapt to the environmental conditions of a deadly world. The Solestros do not suffer the same as Pure Bloods do from Radiaton. The Solestros, from their time being cast into the role of middle manager and subservient to the Pure Blood families, have become inspirational leaders and organizers of survivors, unlike their Pure Blood cousins who have ruled and lead the world from behind protective walls and garrisons.
The Solestros, if not for the relations that they have had with the reclusive Pure Bloods, would truly be a powerful economic and social powerhouse in the wastelands. However, those with money and power tend to do whatever it takes to ensure that money and power stays exactly where it is. The Pure Bloods, seeing the rise of the Solestros as
a threat to the Lineage League and the old money families, have used their in uence and cultural sway to paint the Solestros as somehow being less important than the Pure Bloods. The network of the Lineage League, powerful Pure Blood families involved in religion, Pure Blood families that oversee politics and territories, and the economic powerhouses that oversee the largest trade communities all actively network and  ght to ensure that the Solestros will never be as in uential and powerful as the Pure Bloods are.
Solestros are a family focused people. With the arrogance of the Pure Blood genetics being denied by generations of how the Pure Bloods have victimized the Solestros, what remains behind in their cultural echo is the love and devotion that the individual has to their own home and community. As a Strain the Solestros tend to have more of a worker’s look to them while still carrying the charisma inherit in most Pure Blood families. This cultural difference, due to the struggles that have been forced upon them and their earnest family focused drive, has caused the Solestros to not have the delicate features of most Pure Bloods. Solestros, as they did not evolve in the ivory towers of the Pure Bloods, have endured irradiated landscapes and un inching sun which has given them a more world weathered and hardened appearance than the Pure Bloods and their delicate sensibilities.
Strain Requirements
The Solestros run the gamut of having a worldly appearance to them. Solestros tend to have an appearance appropriate for a hard working merchant or upper middle class caste. While not as  amboyant as their Pure Blood ancestry, the Solestros are still well-dressed. They wear well-tailored survival gear made from enduring materials and visually appear to almost be a hybrid between the fashion senses of the Pure Bloods while keeping some of the utilitarian approach of the Bay Walkers. Solestros are not afraid to get their hands dirty and work hard, so their clothes are very much de ned by their related professions.
106

 Solestros speak pleasantly, are an earnest people, and overall tend to put the health and survival of a community over their own personal wealth. Solestros are leaders who tend to lead by example instead of leading from afar. Due to this tendency for hands-on interaction, Solestros have a dif cult time organizing their networks and ties beyond the local community.
Advantages
Available Skills at 3 Points Each:
Income, Deep Pockets, Literacy, Charisma, Balance, Melee Weapon Standard, Refuse
Middle Manager: Solestros have evolved to become some of the most charismatic ‘hands-on bosses’ in the wastelands. Whenever using the Skill Charisma, they may use the Skill with a ‘By My Voice’ effect at the expenditure of an additional 10 Mind Points beyond their cost for using Charisma. Instead of requiring social interaction with each individual target for 5 minutes, the user of Middle Manager must engage in a combination of menial labor and conversation with at least 3 targets for 10 minutes. No effects may ever lower the cost of this additional 10 Mind Point expenditure, and during the 10 minutes prior roleplay all the way until the By My Voice effect is called, the Solestros may not leave a 10 foot area (no starting the effect and then walking into another
area to trigger it). The effects of Middle Manager share the effects, duration, and restrictions of the Charisma Skill. Targets that enter the room after the start of the 10 minute roleplay are still effected by the ‘By My Voice, Charisma’.
Disadvantages
Second in Command: Pure
Bloods are immune to all uses of Charisma, Cheat, Fear, and Lie used by a Solestros.
Glass Ceiling: Solestros are victims of Pure Blood  nancial warfare. If a Solestros has
the Income skill, when the player collects their currency from income they must spend
3 Mind Points per level
of Income being used to represent the extra efforts that a Solestros must make to be a  nancial contender.
Location Requirements Solestros are most commonly
found no further than 75 miles
from the California coastline. Due
to the oppression of the Pure Bloods, have not been able to advance or expand outward to the rest of the wastelands.

107
 Starting Statistics
Health 4, Mind 4, Infection 7
At a distance one could mistake the Unborn of Têixiptla as Natural Ones or some sort of simple primitive tribe. However, upon getting closer to the Unborn of Têixiptla, the observer would need to be blind to not see the difference. Due to the rebirth process of the Grave-Mind producing the Unborn from ancient remains prepared for the fall of man, the physical form of the unborn is strikingly different from how most Strains appear.
The Unborn of Têixiptla are primarily primitive and similar to Natural Ones in their distrust of technology, however, unlike the Natural Ones the Unborn of Têixiptla are willing to adapt and utilize any technology they can. While the greater number of the Unborn of Têixiptla carry naturally crafted bows, spears, melee weapons, and leather clothes, some of the scouts and individual’s tribesmen who have interacted more with outside cultures have begun to carry ri es and pistols. Only through seclusion due to natural environment and the overall relatively ‘newness’ of the strain have the Unborn of Têixiptla not advanced culturally and technologically as far as the rest of the wasteland survivors.
The Unborn of Têixiptla are a family oriented community that operates with a two level caste system. The  rst caste, The Wisened, are the children and grandchildren
of the leaders of the  rst generation of Unborn. The Unborn of Têixiptla that are a part of the Wisened caste are seen as leaders of the people. Decisions in regards to defense, war, spirituality, and even cultural ties are made by members of the Wisened. The Wisened caste system is divided into warlords, priests, and appraisers. While all three portions of the Wisened caste have equal say in all aspects of day-to-day life,
it is the warlords and the appraisers that use their in uence the most often. The warlords and the appraisers regularly determine what tribes the Unborn of Têixiptla will go to war with, which cultures will be allowed to share commerce, and which individuals will be allowed within the mountain cities that the Unborn of Têixiptla call home. The priest caste does not often use their power to make decisions, however, any detail that the Unborn of Têixiptla accept as being a matter of ‘the gods’ involves the priest caste taking total control.
The priests of the Unborn of Têixiptla believe in blood offerings, sacri ce, and communing with the wisdom of the ‘Great Dead God’. Using hallucinogenic brews made
from select portions of zombie extracts, the priests of the Unborn of Têixiptla perform rituals to commune with the spirits of the dead. These toxic hallucinogenic brews, according to the priests, allow the imbiber to listen to the voices of all the ancestors who have died before them.
The lower caste, the working caste, makes the majority up the Unborn of Têixiptla population. Farmers, hunters, warriors, cooks, and tradesmen of all sorts make up the lower caste level of the culture shared by the Unborn of Têixiptla. Families are known for their skill in regards to their trade and craft, and are expected to share the knowledge of their trade down from generation to generation.
108

 Strain Requirements
The Unborn of Têixiptla are grown from a mixture of the Grave-Mind biomass and especially pre-fall prepared organics. This process has caused the  esh that was reknitted together to be oddly colored with a faint sickly pale green hue to the skin. The veins of the Unborn of Têixiptla are teeming with the infectious material that makes up the undead plague. The veins of the Unborn of Têixiptla around the wrists, arms, legs, throat, and along the jaw are most predominantly visible with a sickly purple
color visible through the skin. While there is blood within the body of the Unborn of Têixiptla, the amount of infectious material within the blood is so potent that the veins have become discolored. Lastly, the eyes of the Unborn of Têixiptla are milky white and require contact lenses (Either full eye or contacts that have a clear pupil but are white around the iris). Due to these visual features, extensive costume and makeup is required for continued play.
Advantages
Available Skills at 3 Points Each:
Melee: Two Handed, Psionic Basic Skill (Maximum of 5 Purchases), Throwing Javelins
Undead Hearts: Unborn of Têixiptla are immune to Poison, Diseases, and Radiation sickness. The Unborn of Têixiptla are immune to area effect or zone damage that has the Poison, Disease, or Radiation modi er connected to it. While the Unborn of Têixiptla will still take the initial damage of ranged attacks, melee, or brawling strikes that have one of these damage modi ers; the Unborn of Têixiptla will not suffer the ill effects normally related with Poison, Disease, or Radiation. This includes being immune to area effects, location (module) effects, or traps that use these three modi ers. The Undead Hearts advantage does not prevent damage from poisons or effects that cause either Psion Bane or Unborn of Têixiptla Bane. (Example: By my Voice 5 Poison
was called. The Unborn calls Undead Heart and takes no damage.
Second Example: The Unborn is stabbed with a blade that normally
does 3 damage, but has a poison on it that does +5 Poison damage.
The Unborn takes 8 damage, but is not poisoned.)
Disadvantages
Limited Potential: The Unborn of Têixiptla are
banned from ever having the professions Engineer, Mad Scientist, or Psionist.
Called to the Grave: When a Unborn reaches Bleed Out, they reach a strange calm state as the Grave Mind calls to them. During bleed out an unborn cannot inject themselves with Brews, activate Gizmos to generate stabilization or healing effects, or even yell or call out for
help. Unborn in Bleed Out are eerily calm
as they are bleeding out to death, however,
if asked they may calmly answer that yes...
they are indeed dying (or going home).
Location Requirements The Unborn of Têixiptla
are only appropriate for play in the Pridelands, and at game locations that are denoted
as Necropolises: Games
that have high numbers of
Full Dead, Semper Mort, and
are focused on communities that
are composed primarily by the barely living.

109
 Starting Statistics
Health 5 Mind 10, Infection 5
One of the greatest cities of the old age, a place full of great lights sequestered in the middle of a desert, Vegasia was untouched for many days when the outbreak started. Instead of hordes of undead slaughtering in the streets, complete lawlessness ran across the great gambling Mecca. By the time the infection spread to this desert oasis, the city itself was already in  ames. Swarms of slaver gangs quickly took sections of the map for their own ownership, and gang warfare raged across the miles of neon streets. Drugs, prostitution, and slave ownership became Vegasian currency.
    Vegasians, descendants of the great slaver city Vegasia, come from a warped
moral stock. Anything and everything has a price to a Vegasian, and if they
truly set their heart on something they will do anything it takes to have it.
Vegasians believe that morality, codes of honor, and the concept of a fair
deal were all lost when society fell. Raised as either potential slaves or as
slave owners, Vegasians are ruthless in their desire for personal power and
advancement.
    Vegasians learned that in the desert, survival means more than simply
killing zombies. Sometimes survival means leaving your moral compass spinning
and doing things others would  nd reprehensible. Duty, honor, and loyalty are
all weaknesses that can get you killed.
    A Vegasian is ‘raised’ to understand that no one is more important than
yourself, and that if others must suffer for your advancement then so be it.
Vegasians come from a culture where slavery is acceptable, caravans travel
across the great desert, and one man’s downfall is another’s windfall.
    Rumor has it that some slaver communities still keep ties with Vegasians,
using those contacts as go-betweens with ‘civilized’ society.
Strain Requirements
    There is no such thing as a fair deal, if a crooked one will serve you
better. There is no such thing as going back for someone who fell behind, unless
they might pay a handsome reward (or be worth a hefty ransom). There is no point
in telling the truth, unless it pays better than a lie. These are truths every
Vegasian learns, and even those that don’t follow the criminal ways of their
brethren have a hard time being anything but ruthlessly pragmatic when it comes
to personal interest. Clothes are oriented towards traveling in the desert, so
 owing cloth and turbans are common. The traditional fabrics of the Vegasians
include suede, polyester, and garish colors that only a lounge lizard would
love. Ostentatious, classless and tacky displays of wealth are common among
those Vegasians who can afford them; those who can’t wear cheap forgeries and
knock-offs all the same.
110

 Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Backstab, Black Market Connections, Cheat, Entertain, Lie, Literacy
Meat Market: A Vegasian can spend  ve Mind Points to receive an advantage similar to the ‘Entertain’ skill for slave camp communities. While this does not prevent the encampment from double-crossing the Vegasian later, it at least gets the individual in the door as a free slave owner. Using this advantage only encourages the distrust of Vegasians by civilized society, however, and most Vegasians know better than to use it in the presence of members of other Strains.
Coward’s Way Out (AKA Buddy Fucker): Vegasians are notorious for their ability to put others between themselves and harm’s way. Once per event, a Vegasian may declare “Coward’s Way Out” immediately after receiving an injury
or harmful effect from an outside source, and nominate a person in brawling range. (They cannot select the source of the damage.) That person becomes the new target of the attack or harmful effect. They may not apply defenses against this attack. Melee, ranged, psionic and even trap effects may be redirected with Coward’s Way Out, though Area of Effect attacks nor ingested damage cannot.
Disadvantages
Born Coward: Any power, Skill, or effect that causes a Vegasian to defend
against a fear or terror effect must be activated twice for every single such
effect used against them. Vegasians are cowards by default, and the very concept
of staying in a  ght when
instinct tells them to leave
is completely alien to them.
Bad Rap: Vegasians are universally distrusted, considered criminals by most everyone they meet, and always assumed to be up to no good.
    Shady Dealers:
Vegasians are banned
from ever having the
professions of Guard, Gun
Slinger, Martial Artist,
and Of cer.

111
 Starting Statistics
Health 15 Mind 5, Infection 4
There is a large lake, a hole in the world, where their home once was. As the streets ran thick with the undead, friends and family dragged themselves many  oors above the killing zone that was their streets. The survivors, those that were able to claw and climb their way  fty  oors up, looked to the skies for help. They waited for the airlifts to pull them out of the hell hole.
    As they looked to the sky, waiting for metallic angels to lift them to
sanctuary, the sky came to them... as the  rst warheads struck in the horizon.
    The York of old is gone, destroyed with such force that a crater cracked
the lands between Manhattan and the Great Lakes. The city that never slept was
swarmed with the undead, cooked in radioactive waves, and then drowned in a  ood
of biblical proportions.
    Yet somehow, despite the death and destruction that rained down upon the
land, some survived. Hardened by the very environmental hell they came from,
Yorkers became the hardened steel nail that would be the  nal stroke in many
undead cof ns.
    Yorkers are a strong people who have dealt with atrocities, violence, and
horrid living conditions- and this has killed them all a little inside. With
hollow eyes and grave expressions, a Yorker carries along with them the ghosts
of a hundred horrible nights.
    While the largest portion of Yorkers are from Old York, the Yorker strain
has been found in large settlements and in locations where pre-fall major cities
once existed.  From coast to coast and even across the ocean Yorkers have
evolved as a Strain.
Strain Requirements
    Yorkers are a very callous people, capable of whatever violence is required
for survival. They have a dif cult time making friends due to the fact that they
are accustomed to everyone they know dying. At the same time they see little
worth in moping and depression, and tend to have colorful, sarcastic, somewhat
larger than life personalities– they party as hard as they  ght, and make sure
their friends and enemies both know exactly how they feel about them. Yorkers
dress in sturdy, versatile clothes and favor hoods, multiple layers of shirts,
and jeans that have been patched a thousand times. Artifacts of pre-fall cities
are highly prized, with ratty old baseball caps, frayed sports team patches, re-
stitched and repurposed jerseys and similar mementos all evoking  erce hometown
pride.  Armor with shreds of fabric from pre-fall luxuries are not uncommon.
112

 Advantages
Available Skills at 3 points each:
Barricade, Bomb Awareness, Chase, Entertain, Interfere, Melee Weapon Standard
Pissed-Off Yorker: Every Yorker has a mean streak in them that comes out especially strongly when they feel they are being kicked around. If a Yorker is put into Bleed Out and then stabilized and healed, the  rst strike they make after being ‘taken out of the  ght’ in icts three additional points of damage. This strike must be within 10 minutes of being knocked down; otherwise the Yorker calms down and does regular damage. During these 10 minutes the Pissed- Off Yorker is also immune to Fear, Terror, and Charisma effects.
Disadvantages
Commitment Issues: Yorkers have a hard time trusting others, but when they
do, they become unwaveringly loyal. Once a Yorker has chosen to let someone
past the hard outer shell they will do anything for them, including putting
themselves in danger or even facing certain death to protect them.
Angry Streak: Yorkers are easily goaded into a  ght, and when Challenge
is used on them they must expend twice for Refuse to negate the effects of Challenge. In addition, Yorkers have a natural hatred for Bay Walkers. Refusing a Challenge from a Bay Walker requires three expenditures of Refuse to negate the effects of Challenge.
Mean Streets: Yorkers are banned from ever having the following professions: Charlatan, Of cer, and Politician.

113
 What does your Character do?
The Concept Design of Professions
The Dystopia Rising LARP game system utilizes a few unique game designs that help the thematic  ow game. These differences tend to hide in plain sight, and if left unexplained, could be seen as  aws or shortcomings in the system. The choice of what Skills are available as Strain based self teaches, skills available on Profession trees that have requirements outside of a single Profession, and
a disjointed feeling when a player attempts to just purchase every Skill in a Profession tree, are all examples.
Professions, and the Skills available as Strain self-teachable Skills, are speci cally designed to require particular Profession combinations or Strain to Profession combinations to be more ef cient. To give an example of this, let’s look at the Baywalker Strain. Baywalkers have a skill set of Analyze Creature, Double Tap, First Aide, Instruct, Literacy, and Parry. You will note that there are no melee Skills on the Baywalker strain list to go along with the Parry Skill. Scrounge and Big Dig, two very appropriate Skills for the genre of the Strain, are not available as Strain self-teach Skills.
The lack of these Skills was an active decision. Now looking at the Skill set and the concept of the Strain as a whole, a number of Professions seem to jump forward as being natural matches for the Baywalker Strain. If a Baywalker were to start as a Jones, the Baywalker gets Teach for free, learns Scrounge for 3, and is able to learn their Double- Tap from their Strain list without having to be forced to purchase the Disarming Shot prerequisite. Almost everything on the Jones list feeds into the Baywalker advantages and self-teach Skills organically. Another option that a Baywalker could choose, to great advantage, is the Of cer profession. Again the Teach Skill is free, but now we
have a melee Skill to combine with the inexpensive Double-Tap Skill as well as the Strain’s Parry
feeding into the available melee related Skills.
The active decision of what Skills are
available for a Strain is based on the ideas
of ‘what Skill does a Strain ABSOLUTELY
have to have’ and ‘what Skills will encourage the appropriate Professions to be chosen for a Strain’. If you think about it, there are two trains of thought when it comes to choosing the Profession for your character. Some players choose the Profession and Strain that matches the concept that they have in mind for their character. For
114

 this sort of player, choosing Of cer over Guard is based on mentality and history
of the character instead of mechanics. Other players look at what combination
of Strain and Professions will provide the most economic base for Skills, as well
as provide the widest array of Skills for what it is they are looking to do. Fortunately, due to the thought process that went into choosing Skills for Strains and professions, both conceptual design and mechanic design players often times come up with the same character and Profession combinations.
Professions are also not designed as a linear tree. Taking the variable of Strains out of the equation, each Profession is designed to be most ef cient when
a Profession is combined with a second Profession which compliments the Skill
set of the  rst. At times there are Skills available on a Profession tree that prerequisite purchase requirements that are not on the Profession tree. This decision achieves the same design needs as choosing what Skills are available to
a Strain. My leaving speci c Skills off of Profession growth trees, and at times making requirements that exist across different profession sets, it encourages both mechanical and conceptual design players to choose Professions which complement the initial Strain.
Now with this design concept in mind, take a longer look at what Professions encompass. Professions represent the Skill set that each person has the capacity to learn due to the nature of their  eld of study or training. Each character starts with one single Profession, but can purchase a second and third Profession either at character creation or additional down the line from other players as well as staff represented characters.
You will notice that not everything that can be done in the world is
represented by a Skill. While ten thousand Skills could be written to give mechanics to everything from bocce playing to xylophone use, we  nd that the system would become more unwieldy and more visible in doing so. If you cannot  nd a Skill for something that you wish to do, then contact the staff and discuss what your idea
is. As this is a living document, we may  nd that the Skill set you describe  ts well in the world and add it.
Professions, Strain, and the Open list are the three areas that de ne what Skills you may have as well as the cost for these Skills. Always be sure to check your Strain to see if you can purchase some of these Skills innately for lower rates.
Each Profession also has a “Play A (Name of Profession) If...” section, which is designed to give you an idea of what the Profession does, how it  ts into the game world, what it’s capable of, and even how it often interacts with other Professions. It should be noted that this section talks in terms of potential,
not in terms of automatic bene ts – just because Doctors are described as amazing healers doesn’t mean that picking up the Profession instantly makes you one. You still have to pick up the right Doctor skills, but as you purchase more Skills from that list, you’ll come to see exactly what makes them the versatile and powerful healers that are described in the write-up.
Some Professions note that they may bring the practitioner to the attention
of the Guild. While not every member is tapped, and openly advertising an interest in joining such a secretive and lethal organization is a sure way to a bad end,
this sinister cabal is known to keep track of survivors who display an af nity for certain... morally questionable Skill sets. If they are so approached, whether or not a survivor chooses to accept “the offer you can’t refuse” is their own business, but the offer is never made lightly, and refusal may carry certain consequences. Members of such professions are encouraged to keep their mouths shut about the Guild in any event, because you never know who’s listening.

115
 Profession and Profession Advancement Quick Lists
Complete Basic Professions List
   Assassin
Caravan Driver
  Charlatan
     Cook
  Distiller
    Doctor
   Engineer
 Entertainer
    Farmer
  Fishmonger
   Gambler
    Guard
 Gun Slinger
   Hook-Up
    Hunter
    Jones
Mad Scientist
Martial Artist
   Merchant
    Of cer
  Politician
    Priest
  Primitive
   Printer
   Psionist
   Publican
 Pugilist
Ring Leader
 Sawbones
 Scavenger
 Scoundrel
  Sniper
  Soldier
    Spy
  Teacher
   Thief
   Thug
  Tinker
Profession Concentrations Combat Profession Concentrations
Agility Combatant Focus, Ranged Combatant Focus, Short Range Combat Focus
Civilized Society Profession Concentrations
Civil Servant Focus, Socialite Focus, Resource Manager Focus
Crafting and Production Concentration
Consumables Producer Focus, Quality Producer Focus, Quantity Producer Focus
Advanced Professions
Apocatastian Templar
      Avontuur
    Bone Breaker
    Entrepreneur
    Free Radical
        G-Man
      Gear Head
    Grave Robber
      Marksman
116
  Mercenary
Merican Ba-Das
 Mind Killer
     Monk
  Mountebank
   Nephilim
     Oni
   Overlord
    Reaper
        Sage
       Saint
       Shadow
Shepherd of the Land
      Survivor
   Techno Savant
   Thought Bender
      Veteran
       Villon

 Skill Name
Open Skill List
Cost Prerequisites
Avoid 9 Barricade 9 Bolt Action 9 Brawling 9 Check Quality 9 Check Value 9 First Aide 9 Force Barricade 9 Literacy 6 Lore (Type) 6
Melee
Melee
Melee
Parry
Pistol Whip 9 Shield 6
Weapon, Small 6 Weapon, Standard 6 Weapon, Two-Hand 6
Society Membership
(Varies)
6
0 Must receive in-game, cannot start with society membership
Teach 1 Throwing 6 Throwing, Javelins 6
Tie Binds 6
Skills on the Open Skill List may be purchased by any character at the listed cost, regardless of Profession or Strain, unless otherwise barred due to other existing character restrictions.

117
 Skill Name
Assassin
Cost Prerequisites
Alert 3 Avoid 3 Backstab 3 Balance 3 Black Market Connections 6 Blinding 3 Choking Blow 3 Cover of Night 3 Disguise 3 Fade In The Crowd 3 Guild Member 6 Melee Weapon, Small 3 Murder Most Foul 6 Parry 3 Throwing 3 Vanish 3
Disguise
Backstab & Cover of Night
Guild Member
It doesn’t matter whether they were born to the highest class or the lowest dregs– the Assassin keeps company with death and visits it on others. All are born with a knife in their hand, relentless footfalls, a hard look, and a desire to hunt the greatest prey the world has to offer.
Play An Assassin If...
You want to play a dedicated contract killer. As an Assassin, you approach your targets with stealth or trickery, use a variety of dirty tricks to land some devastating attacks and slip away before your victim can retaliate. You work best when your target is unaware of your presence, or when others are around to offer distractions– a straight up  ght with an alert foe usually isn’t the best idea. Be careful about associating with too many unsavory types, at least openly; the last thing you need is more attention.
Be advised that the Guild watches this profession, and tends to frown on “freelancers.” Assassins without Guild Member are either offered to join, extorted, or killed.
118

 Skill Name
Caravan Driver
Cost Prerequisites
Bartender’s Tongue 6 Bolt Action 3 Brawling 3 Charisma 3 Check Quality 3 Check Value 3 Feign Death 6 Income 3 Instruct 3 Melee Weapon, Standard 3 Pistol Whip 3 Refuse 3 Teach 0 Trade Ties 3
Teach
When societies broke down and community went out the window, humanity began
to lose its way. Caravan Drivers saw this and took control, becoming Fathers and Mothers of the road. Caravans became makeshift villages, with people of all walks of life falling in line to the sound of one voice, the voice of the Caravan Driver. They offer education, trade, salvage, and protection – for a fee.
Play An Caravan Driver If...
You want to play a hardened merchant prince of the road. As a Caravan Driver, you are one part trader, one part leader, and one part all-around ass kicker, equally able to keep your caravan safe against the dangers of the wild and negotiate a fair price for your goods when you make it to town. You stand  ne on your own, but work best when you have a group behind you, preferably some rough types to ward off trouble as well as some gatherers and scavengers to keep you supplied with goods
to bring to market. Distillers, Cooks and Distillers of all varieties are natural customers for the Herbs your Trade Ties bring in, while Engineers, Tinkers and Mad Scientists appreciate a steady  ow of Scrap.

119
 Skill Name
Charlatan
Cost Prerequisites
Alert 3 Avoid 6
Beg For Life
Charisma 3 Cheat 3
Cure Toxins
Educated
Escape Bonds
Interrogate 3 Melee Weapon, Small 3 Mind Resistance 6 Tie Binds 3 Torture 3 Unlock 3
Everyone in the world works hard to make their way; they work hard to keep their property, their food, and their very lives. The Charlatan knows this and works hard to take those things from them. Charlatans are skilled at the art of taking from others through lies, coercion, or as a very last resort, by force.
Play An Chalatan If...
You enjoy playing a silver-tongued huckster. As a Charlatan, you will be talking your way into –and right back out of– trouble as often as possible, and always on the lookout for the right person to talk to in order to get ahead in a situation. You have some killer social skills to help you bring people around to your position, so don’t be afraid to use them to turn situations to your advantage. You also have some relatively uncommon practical skills, so make sure to offer them up whenever you can– for the right price, of course. Doctors and Sawbones often appreciate some extra assistance when there’s a lot of toxins that need curing, while local law enforcement may  nd your ability to restrain a subject and put them to the question –sweetly or not so sweetly– quite the rare and invaluable talent. However you sell yourself, make sure somebody’s always buying.
120

6 Charisma
6 Educated 3 Literacy 6 Tie Binds
 Skill Name
Cook
Cost Prerequisites
Analyze Compound 3 Charisma 6
Disguise Contents
Educated
Healthy Feast
Income 3
3 Healthy Feast 3 Literacy
3 Prepare Meal
Instruct
Literacy 3
Nail
Prepare Meal 3 Rescue 3 Scrounge 6 Teach 0 Throwing 3
Zombies and Raiders are not the only threats in the world; malnutrition, starvation, and food based poisons are just as deadly. A capable Cook is someone who not only can make food taste good, but understands that you need
to have a balanced diet to stay alive. They can produce meals that refresh your  agging spirits or even cure what ails you. Of course, if you make them angry, they know how to incorporate all kinds of nasty things into their food and  avor it so that you’d never notice until it’s too late...
Play A Cook If...
    You enjoy playing a crafter whose food keeps other survivors at peak
performance. As a Cook, your meals offer the most ef cient way in the game for
characters to recover valuable Mind Points, so expect to be highly in-demand
after battles and other major dust-ups. More exotic recipes offer a variety of
additional bene ts too, so keep an ear out for tasty new dishes to prepare.
Of course, proper meals require quality Produce, so keep an eye out for fresh
Herbs as well as all kinds of meat and any other foodstuffs. Scrounge what you
can when you can, but it’s worth getting to know as many Farmers, Hunters,
Fishmongers and Scavengers as possible in order to keep your kitchen well
stocked.

3 Teach
3 Throwing
121
 Skill Name
Distiller
Cost Prerequisites
Analyze Compound 3
Bartender’s Tongue
Brawling 3
Brew Master
Brewing
Check Quality 3 Cure Toxins 3
Educated
Income 3 Literacy 3 Melee Weapon, Large 3 Melee Weapon, Standard 3 Scrounge 3 Teach 0
Booze, Moonshine, Grog, Juice, Red-eye, and Hooch. These are the trades of the Distiller. He crafts his potions strong; strong enough to shut out the world as needed. Strong enough to cure what ails you, and strong enough to  ght back the cold, long nights. Distillers seek out safety in their stills, brewing to keep the people happy, and thereby, keeping themselves paid and entertained.
Play A Distiller If...
    You enjoy playing a crafter whose brews restore, relax and enhance your
fellow survivors. As a Distiller, no other profession can equal your raw
brewing skill, and your craft is among the most diverse around, capable of
producing many different Brews with results ranging from simple intoxication or
hallucinations to instant health or almost godlike resilience and anything in
between. You’re not bad in a brawl either, and tend to know more than people
might think about what’s going on. Your skills require steady supply of fresh
Herbs, so scrounging and getting to know local Farmers and Scavengers is a good
idea, as is becoming acquainted with Merchants and Publicans who can market your
wares to a thirsty public. Because why do the boring part, when the brewing is
so much more fun?
122

6 Brewing
6 Brewing
6 Analyze Compound
6 Literacy
 Skill Name
Doctor
Cost Prerequisites
Bolt Action 3
Check Status
Cure Toxins
Educated
First Aide 3 Fix Limb 3 Income 3 Literacy 3 Mangle Limb 3
Medical Assistance
Medical Genius
Melee Weapon, Small 3 Sever 3 Teach 0 Torture 3
Doctors are rare men and women who have acquired a formal education in the art of healing and mending the wounded and the sick. Medical skills usually help Doctors save or extend lives, although those same skills can also allow them to harm in ways that can unearth even the deepest secrets. In any community, Doctors are revered for their skills and knowledge. Many seek them out to further their education and medical training.
Play A Doctor If...
    You want to be a versatile and powerful healer. As a Doctor, your Skills
are costly to learn but incredibly effective once obtained, allowing you to
treat patients much more quickly and ef ciently than any other type of healer
around. Your knowledge of anatomy makes you surprisingly dangerous in a brawl,
and can also provide a comfortable income if you’re so inclined. The one type of
injury you cannot cure is trauma of the mind, so it’s good to get to know which
local Teachers and Entertainers can help when it comes to treating deranged
individuals.

6 Educated 6 Literacy 6 Literacy
6 Literacy
6 Medical Assistance
123
 Skill Name
Barricade
Check Quality
Chop
Florentine
Force Barricade
Forging the Future
Income
Literacy
Melee Weapon, Small
Patch Job
Repair
SCIENCE!
Smelt
Weld
Engineer
Cost Prerequisites
3
3
6
6
3
6
3
3
3
3
6
6
3
6
Weapons, guns, and armor are all very important, but so are forti cations and safe houses. Engineers specialize in improving the shanties and structures where the world’s populations dwell, making them stronger, more durable and
more ef cient. In some cases, Engineers can even improve upon their design, adapting them for the specialized purposes in the short term. Be it incorporating inspiring signs of faith into a crumbling church, or double-layering walls to resist the Tank trying to force them down, the Engineer plans to outlast her problems, rather than outmaneuver them.
Play An Engineer If...
    You want to play a crafter who reinforces strongholds and builds structures
that offer powerful bene ts to large groups of people. As an Engineer, you’re
usually the  rst one called to build a barricade, and you’re quite capable with
a weapon in each hand, but your real love is building structures that enhance
the skills of your fellow survivors for months or years at a time. Of course,
such big bene ts also carry big costs, so you’ll often need to Chop, Scrounge
and buy as much Scrap metal as you can, as well as keep in touch with local
Merchants and Scavengers for your more exotic building materials.
124

 Skill Name
Entertainer
Cost Prerequisites
Balance 3
Bartender’s Tongue
Bolt Action 3 Bomb Awareness 3
Cheat
Check Value 3
Disarming Blow
Entertain 6
Head Shrink
Income 3 Lie 3 Melee Weapon, Standard 3 Refuse 3 Throwing 3
The Entertainer is a rare breed of individual in this fallen world. Be it oratory, music, dancing or any other performance style, the Entertainer is well known in their local community. The Muses have spoken through them, and Entertainers have a unique ability to affect the emotions of those around them. While the Entertainer may honor their craft, it is rarely the most the pro table of professions. As such, most Entertainers pick up various other skills to round themselves out and keep them going until their next big gig.
Play An Entertainer If...
You want to bring some art and passion to a burning world. As an Entertainer, you have a good array of social skills, you know what things are worth and you even have a few dirty tricks if a scene gets nasty, but your real strength is performance. Not only does it entertain others, but it also restores valuable Mind Points, and you can even learn how to use it to soothe the troubled minds of the deranged. You work well when paired with a local Publican or other business owner, trading your talent for a space to perform and more business for their establishment. Note: You need not be OOC talented to be an Entertainer, but you must be willing to actively perform in some fashion.

6 Cheat
6 Lie
6 Melee Weapon (Any)
6 Entertain
125
 Skill Name
Farmer
Cost Prerequisites
Alert 3 Analyze Creature 3 Animal Handler 3 Brawling 6
Brewing
Carry 3 Chase 3 Crop Tending 3 First Aide 3
Income
Melee Weapon, Standard 3
Take Down
Throwing 3
In this fallen world, cultivating both edible vegetation and animals suitable for consumption is extremely dif cult, not to mention dangerous. Large farms attract Raiders, having too many animals will attract zombies, and so much of
the soil is simply irradiated and useless. Having a Farmer who is able to raise crops and take care of small amounts of animals is a godsend when it comes to the overall survival of the species.
Play A Farmer If...
    You want to play a combat-ready gatherer who provides very valuable and
perishable commodities. As a Farmer, you’re close to the land, able to identify
strange creatures, track elusive targets and generally be quite capable of
defending yourself in a brawl. You can even make a limited but surprisingly
effective  eld medic in a pinch, should you be so inclined. However, your
signature talents are your ability to tend crops and handle animals, which allow
you to gather plenty of fresh Herbs as well as bring to market animal products
such as meat, milk and wool. Cooks and Distillers are your natural customers,
though wool and some of your more exotic Herbs can sometimes  nd a market with
Engineers, Mad Scientists and Tinkers.
126

3 Crop Tending
3 Crop Tending
6 Brawling
 Skill Name
Fishmonger
Cost Prerequisites
Alert 3 Analyze Creature 3 Avoid 6 Bow 3 Brawling 3 Cheat 3 Fishing 6 Lie 3 Melee Weapon, Two-Hand 3 Nail 3 Sailing 3 Throwing, Javelins 3 Tie Binds 3
Fishing

Throwing, Javelins or Bow
Fishing itself is not a demanding profession; however, it is at times a deceptively dangerous one. Sea travel is risky on its own, especially when one considers how few safe ports are left, and before going to market Fishmongers
need to know how to sort out mutated or irradiated sea creatures from more edible stock. Even the seemingly simple act of  nding a safe area to be alone long enough to haul in a decent catch is hazardous in a world where Raiders, mutants and zombies are never too far away.
Play A Fishmonger If...
    You want to be a tough, exotic trader who brings  sh for market and raw
materials to keep the town running. As a Fishmonger, you are the only profession
that can sail, making you invaluable for certain expeditions as well as giving
you access to information and resources that no other profession does. You are
at home in a saloon, whether playing cards and swapping stories or throwing
punches and swinging chairs, and as deadly with weapons held as weapons thrown.
Your ability to bring Scrap and Herbs ashore makes it easy to  nd steady
customers among all manner of builders and craftsmen, while your  shing makes it
possible to bring Cooks edibles virtually on-demand.
127
 Skill Name Cost
Backstab 6 Bartender’s Tongue 6 Black Market Connections 3 Brawling 3 Charisma 3 Cheat 3 Check Your Sleeves 6 Disarming Blow 3 Feign Death 3 Lie 3 Melee Weapon, Small 3 Pick Pockets 6 Throwing 3 Unlock 3
Prerequisites
Melee Weapon, Small
Cheat
Gambler
Ever since the world fell apart, every day has been a gamble. Sometimes the
only way to survive in this hell on Earth is to pay your money and take your chances. Those who call themselves Gamblers live by their wits and the luck of the draw, winning what they need in a dice game or a hand of cards. While style and skill are important to these cocky thrill-seekers, when all else fails they’re not above plain old lying, cheating and stealing to make ends meet. In addition to counting cards and shaving dice, Gamblers often pick up other illicit skills that help them pocket enough credits for their next game, or squirm out of the trouble that inevitably follows.
Play A Gambler If...
    You enjoy taking outlandish risks and don’t mind using dirty tricks to beat
the odds. As a Gambler, you walk a  ne line– your best Skills involve  eecing
others, but if you do it too badly or too often you won’t be able to  nd anyone
to use them on anymore. Channel your worst nefariousness away from friends and
neighbors whenever possible, the better to catch them off-guard later if you
need a quick  x. Use your social skills to stay ahead of trouble, but don’t
hesitate to do a little dirty  ghting if it catches up.
128

 Skill Name
Guard
Cost Prerequisites
Barricade 3 Blind Fighting 6
Bounce
Break Shield
Break Weapon
Carry
Fearful Glare 3 Force Barricade 3 Interfere 3
Knock Down
Mangle Limb
Melee Weapon, Standard 3 Parry 3 Shield 3
Wide Strike
6 Shield
6 Melee Weapon (Any)
6 Melee Weapon, Any
6 Shield
6 Melee Weapon (Any) 6 Melee Weapon (Any) 3
Not everyone has the smarts or the connections to  nd their next meal or obtain needed equipment through their own efforts. Some of these individuals turn
to crime, while others decide to stop them. Whenever food, supplies or other valuables exist in any quantity there is a need to keep them safe from Raiders, thieves and the relentless threat of the walking dead. When there are supplies to defend, innocents in need of protection, or travelers looking for safe passage, Guards step up to keep threats at bay.
Play A Guard If...
    You want to play a stalwart protector and powerful defensive combatant.
As a Guard, you  ght best in the thick of a melee, with a stout shield in one
hand and a wicked weapon in the other, protected by the best armor you can  nd.
Bodyguard work is often your best chance for steady employment, particularly if
you can  nd a member of a lucrative but less combat-capable profession such as
a Merchant or Politician. You’ll also want to get to know some local Tinkers
who can improve your gear, not to mention repair it after all the abuse it
inevitably suffers in the line of duty.

129
 Skill Name
Gun Slinger
Cost Prerequisites
Blinding 6 Bolt Action 3 Challenge 3
Concentrated Fire
Destroy Shield
Destroy Weapon
Double-Tap
Fearful Glare 3

6 Bolt Action 6 Bolt Action 6 Bolt Action 3 Bolt Action
Gun A cionado
Pistol Whip 3 Scatter Shot 3
Sniped Shot
Teach 0 Throwing 3
Some people are lucky enough to have possession of a working  rearm. A few are even good enough to use it without losing eyes or  ngers in the process. And a handful of those are skilled enough to be called Gun Slingers. As feared as they are admired, Gun Slingers have an almost inhuman connection with their  rearm, allowing them to make incredible shots and take down enemies others can only dream about, all without letting their opponents get close enough to take a single swing.
Play A Gun Slinger If...
    You want to be an absolute badass with a gun in your hand. As a Gun Slinger,
you have access to all the shooting skills a survivor can learn, and you can
take out many enemies without them getting close enough to ruf e your duster.
Of course, sometimes there are just too many enemies to gun them all down
before they step up and say howdy, so you tend to work best with a nice screen
of Thugs, Guards, Soldiers and other melee-happy lunatics out in front of you,
keeping rude strangers at bay while you work your black powder magic. It’s
important to have a killer  rearm, so make friends with the local Tinkers to
ensure that you always carry the absolute best shooter you possibly can.
130
6 Bolt Action
6 Gun A cionado
 Skill Name Cost
Attach 3 Bartender’s Tongue 6 Black Market Connections 6 Building Tomorrow 6 Check Quality 3 Check Value 3 Fade In A Crowd 3 Income 6 Patch Job 3 Rescue 3 SCIENCE! 6 Scrounge 6 Trade Ties 3 Trap Making 6 Unlock 3
Prerequisites
Bartender’s Tongue

Hook-Up
Patch Job
Alot of stuff got left behind when the dead started to walk and the cities
got bombed out; a lot of useful stuff for those who know what to do with it. Sometimes you need a few more shells for that six-shooter your father left you, sometimes it’s a bottle of hooch for Saturday night’s festivities. Sometimes it’s just a new pair of socks. That’s when you turn to everyone’s pal, the Hook-Up– he’s got a half box of shells, a jar of the good stuff, and even a pair of wool ones that actually match. And he never asks you any troubling questions about why you want it or what you’ll do with it... so long as you return the favor.
Play A Hook-Up If...
    You like being “the guy who knows a guy” who’s always scheming ways to get
ahead. As a Hook-Up, you don’t have the contacts that legit merchants do, so get
creative and stress your “other” services. A quick  x in the  eld? No problem.
Pull someone out of danger? Sure thing. Make a trap? You’re one of the few who
can. Hustle, baby. You’ve got something for everyone; they just don’t know it
yet. Sure other people might do the same sort of work, but you’re right here,
right now, and ready to make a deal.
131
 Skill Name
Hunter
Cost Prerequisites
Alert 3 Bow 6 Carry 3 Charge 3 Chase 3 Double-Tap 6 Frightening Force 6 Hunter’s Mark 6 Melee Weapon Expert 6 Melee Weapon, Large 3 Melee Weapon, Small 3 Melee Weapon, Standard 3 Nail 6 Throwing, Javelins 3
Alert & Chase
Melee Weapon, Large
Throwing, Javelins
It’s out there, in the woods, in the wastes, in what’s left of the city, and when you track it down at last, one of the two of you will be food for the other. Whether bringing down a feral pig to feed her family, or putting one between the eyes of one of the shambling dead to protect her companions, a Hunter is always prepared to cross that divide between predator and prey. A handy person to have around when food is low or trouble is in the wind, few people are as versed in using available weapons and tactics as a Hunter.
Play A Hunter If...
    You like being a tracker and a master of primitive weaponry. As a Hunter,
you have access to a wide variety of melee weapons, and can put down even the
toughest zombies on the  rst fall with a well-timed Double-Tap. You can pin
enemies in place with ranged attacks, track elusive and  eeing enemies with ease
and strike with terrifying power, making you an excellent scout and skirmisher
for any armed force. Naturally, you can also learn to hunt all manner of wild
game, bringing valuable meats to market that cooks can use in preparing their
meals.
132

 Skill Name
Jones
Cost Prerequisites
Attach 3 Balance 3
Big Dig
Bolt-Action 6 Bomb Awareness 3 Brawling 6
Concentrated Fire
Disarming Shot
Double-Tap
Escape Bonds 3 Literacy 3
Pistol Whip
Scrounge 3 Teach 0
Unlock
6 Disarming Shot
6 Bomb Awareness
3 Bomb Awareness
6 Disarming Shot 3 Bolt-Action
6 Disarming Shot
Civilization has crumbled, and many struggle to hold on to some semblance of what once-was. While others try to hold on to past ideals, a Jones is dedicated to recovering the actual artifacts of civilization prior to the Fall, as well as living up to the expectations of the historian-adventurers of old. Jones’ delve into the ruined cities and crumbling shrines of a dead world, battling hordes of zombies with naught but wit, luck, and a trusty pistol, all for the sake of  nding even just a single useful remnant of the past.
Play A Jones If...
    You like being an action archaeologist, relic in one hand and pistol in
the other. As a Jones, you emulate a great hero of old, fearlessly diving into
all manner of dangerous ruins in search of lost artifacts and forgotten truths.
Your ability to dig for relics is unique to this profession, and most Jones see
their work as a sort of higher calling, though others are mercenaries who gladly
sell their  nds to the highest bidder. You’re a natural  ghter, as good with
your  sts as a pistol, but you also pair quite well with Teachers, who can help
analyze some of your more exotic  nds. Your skills are also quite in demand when
it looks like there may be traps ahead, and you wouldn’t have it any other way.

133
 Skill Name Cost
Black Market Connection 6 Bomb Awareness 6 Building Tomorrow 6 First Aide 3 Income 6 Literacy 3 Melee Weapon, Two-Hand 3 Mind Resistance 6 Patch Job 3 Repair 3 SCIENCE! 6 Scrounge 3 Teach 0 Torture 3
Prerequisites
Literacy
Mad Scientist
Repair
While Doctors might have their Code of Ethics and Tinkers may have their Scienti c Process, Mad Scientists have no time for such atrophied concepts. Genius does not come in gentle currents, but as a tidal wave that takes over Mind and Health alike! It cannot be sti ed by such things as ‘procedure’ and ‘morality.’ There is no length that a Mad Scientist will not go to, nothing that will stop them from completing their current project. Indeed, past experience has taught them that some martial skill is required to protect themselves from the angry unenlightened as well as thieves and zombies, and they have a knack for knowing when they are just about to set off a disastrous trap.
Play A Mad Scientist If...
    You enjoy playing a slightly shady craftsman with a  air for the dramatic
and a knack for bizarre logic. As a Mad Scientist, you are one of a rare few
who understands SCIENCE!, which mean you will  nd your skills in demand when
it comes to deciphering certain dif cult blueprints,  guring out obscure
technologies or puzzling out weird theories. Most of your basic crafting work
requires Scrap metal, so befriending Engineers and Scavengers is a good idea,
though between your grand projects you may also  nd that you can make a rather
decent living repairing arms and armor for the more pugnacious locals – after
all, those lesser minds do so love to quarrel, don’t they?
134

 Skill Name
Martial Artist
Cost Prerequisites
Avoid 6 Balance 3 Bow 3 Brawling 3 Carry 3
Choking Blow
Escape Bonds 3
Iron Fists
Knockout
Literacy 3
Nerve Punch
Takedown
Wide Strike
6 Brawling 3 Brawling 6 Brawling
6 Brawling
6 Brawling
6 Iron Fists
Perhaps you have been trained in an ancient martial tradition dating back centuries. Perhaps you’ve heard of a member of Telling Visions speak of an old Saturday morning ritual where a good man fought to uphold justice for the common people. No matter how you came by your knowledge, you have dedicated yourself to becoming a living weapon. Through rigorous study and practice, you are as deadly with your body as any Gun Slinger’s pistol or Guard’s ax.
Play A Martial Artist If...
    You enjoy being able to use a combination of brawling attacks and exotic
special moves to destroy your enemies. As a Martial Artist, you need to get in
close to the enemy and  ght fearlessly, but fortunately it usually only takes
one or two of your best moves to end most  ghts in your favor. You have limited
ranged combat options, however, so make sure you can close the distance with
your enemies quickly when battle begins. Your arsenal of tricks also tends to
burn through your Mind Points quickly, so make friends with the Cooks, Priests
and Entertainers who can help replenish that resource.

135
 Skill Name Cost
Analyze Compound 3 Barricade 6 Bartender’s Tongue 6 Beg For Life 6 Black Market Connections 6 Carry 3 Charisma 3 Check Quality 3 Check Value 6 Check Your Sleeves 3 Disguise 6 Fade In A Crowd 3 Income 3 Lie 3
Prerequisites
Charisma
Lie
Merchant
Let’s face it; no matter how the world changes or how much it goes to hell, people will always need stuff. And you are just the type of person to have what they’re looking for. The world still operates on the tenets of supply and demand, and you do your best to make sure that the Distiller gets the best return on his newest brew, a Cook has the materials to keep their customers happy and that all the Tinker’s hard work is appreciated.
Play A Merchant If...
    You like being the one who always has a stack of goods to sell and a taller
stack of money from doing it. As a Merchant, your challenge is  nding a niche
in the market and  lling it, so early on you want gather as much money as you
can while taking a good look around and see who’s selling what to whom: who’s
gathering materials, who’s crafting with those materials, and what everybody’s
charging for those privileges. Once you’ve got that down, it’s time to act as a
go-between– you want to make it known that you will pay for a certain commodity,
then turn around and re-sell it at a pro t. Don’t be afraid to use your social
skills to help carve out a market, and be ready to defend your market share as
new Merchants and suppliers come into the picture.
136

 Skill Name
Officer
Cost Prerequisites
Bolt Action 6 Brawling 3 Break Armor 3 Challenge 3
Charge
Destroy Armor 6 Disarming Shot 6
Fearful Glare
Florentine 6 Frightening Force 6
Instruct
Literacy 3 Melee Weapon, Large 3 Teach 0
You would think that a world so devastated would have a greater understand of community and ethics, but those who become Of cers know this isn’t true. Order must be maintained and the weak protected from those who would take advantage of them. Perhaps more importantly, military force becomes dangerously unstable and cruel when it’s not headed by strong authority  gures, and your strong voice and iron discipline ensures that it does not become a leaderless, rampaging mob.
Play An Of cer If...
    You want to take charge of tactical situations while still being to throw
down alongside the troops. As an Of cer, you have a versatile assortment of
weapon skills and the talents to use them, as well as abilities that will ensure
some enemies can’t even face you in the  rst place. You work best at the head of
an organized military force, where you can direct the troops to the best effect:
sending Hunter and Snipers out for recon and  anking attacks; forming a strong
battle line with Soldiers, Guards, Engineers and Thugs; deploying “specialists”
like Gun Slingers, Assassins and Psions where they can in ict the most damage.
No matter who’s under your command, however, you need to learn their strengths
and weaknesses so that you can do your best to make sure they’re always deployed
where they’re most needed and don’t wind up over their heads in a bad situation.

6 Melee Weapon, Large
6 Break Armor
3 Teach
137
 Skill Name Cost
Avoid 3 Backstab 6 Bartender’s Tongue 6 Beg For Life 3 Charisma 3 Cheat 3 Check Your Sleeves 6 Educated 3 Entertain 6 Escape 3 Escape Bonds 3 Literacy 3 Melee Weapon, Small 3 Income 3 Lie 6
Prerequisites
Melee Weapon, Small
Cheat
Literacy
Income
Politician
Nature abhors a vacuum and so does politics. Luckily, real Politicians recognize this and  ll it with their personality, intellect and charm. The old governments might be gone but society still needs  gureheads and ambassadors. Someone still needs to grease the wheels, shake the hands and kiss the babies. More importantly, having a single executive decision maker allows a community to react swiftly and decisively during a crisis– if that decision maker just happens to be you, so much the better!
Play A Politician If...
    You like being a key player in personal and political intrigue. As a
Politician, you have a powerful assortment of social skills to help you stay in
the loop and bring others around to your point of view, as well as some handy
defensive skills for getting out of trouble if a situation turns violent. You
work best when you make extensive connections with other community leaders
such as Merchants, Publicans, Of cers, Ring Leaders, Priests and Caravan
Drivers. After all, it’s in your interest to keep yourself informed about
local developments such as treaties, trade routes and relations with other
settlements, not to mention keep tabs on the private lives of the relevant
 gures involved.
138

 Skill Name
Priest
Cost Prerequisites
Avoid 3
Barricade
Bless Weapon
Call The All Mighty 6 Carry 3 Charisma 3
Educated
Escape 3 Faith Healing 6
Holy Rites
Interfere 3 Literacy 3 Mind Resistance 3
Pray For Justice
Refuse 3
The world has entered a dark time where hope is a rare thing. In such dire circumstances, people turn to a variety of faiths to  nd purpose and guidance. It is the Priest that provides the channel to these for his congregation. A Priest looks beyond his own concerns and focuses on the needs of his  ock, as dictated by the doctrines of his faith.
Play A Priest If...
    You want to play a powerful spiritual leader with the ability to perform
amazing miracles. As a Priest, you are among the most versatile of professions,
with strong defensive skills, useful healing talents and a few potent offensive
capabilities; combined with your leadership role among the faithful, you can
easily become the focal point of a large group of followers. In return, you must
strive to uphold the tenets of your faith whenever possible, and do your best to
see that your followers do the same – while you need not be a humorless zealot,
there should be no question in word or deed that you are a walking embodiment of
your chosen faith. Give them something to believe in, preacher!
Special: Unlike most characters, Priests may begin play already formally baptized to the faith of their choosing. Staff must approve this choice during character creation.

6 Faith Healing
3 Pray For Justice
3 Literacy
3 Educated
6 Faith Healing
139
 Skill Name
Primitive
Cost Prerequisites
Analyze Creature 3 Avoid 6 Bounce 6 Bow 3 Brawling 3 Challenge 6 Chase 3 Chop 3 Mangle Limb 6 Melee Weapon, Two-Hand 3 Melee Weapon Expert 3 Shield 3 Throwing 3 Tie Binds 3 Wide Strike 6
Shield
Melee Weapon, Two-Hand
The time for technology came, destroyed the world, and left ... and the Primitive could not be any happier. They have learned to live in the wastes with nothing more than their wits, their weapons, and their drive for survival. From an early age, Primitives strive to learn as many combat tactics as possible, ensuring
that they have every edge in their battle for survival, no matter what tools are available to them.
Play A Primitive If...
    You want to play the a savage warrior who’s deadly with all manner of
primitive weapons. As a Primitive, you are skilled at ranged  ghting but
especially devastating in close combat, equally capable of defensive  ghting
with a shield in hand or all-out offense with you laying waste with a giant
weapon. You run well with Hunters and Scavengers, patrolling the fringes, and
can do well with a sideline in selling crafters the Scrap metal you collect from
chopping the weapons of fallen enemies. When trouble threatens, step up and show
it what a bad decision it is to mess a weapons master.
140

 Skill Name Cost
Bartender’s Tongue 3 Black Market Connections 3 Bolt Action 3 Charisma 6 Educated 3 Escape 6 Fade In A Crowd 3 Income 3 Instruct 3 Literacy 3 Mind Resistance 3 Teach 0 Transcribe 3
Prerequisites
Literacy
Educated
Literacy
Printer
In an age of illiterate and uneducated cattle, being skilled in written communication allows a Printer to provide a service that has a limited demand, but even less competition. Often sought after by craftsmen, from Distillers to Tinkers, Printers can  nd themselves either in the lap of luxury or begging to scratch out an existence. Whenever a new Blueprint or other valuable document surfaces, however, a Printer can be sure that they will be approached not long after, whether to create a backup copy for ‘insurance’ or getting a cut of the price the owner is charging other craftsmen for their copies.
Play A Printer If...
    You want to play a well-connected craftsman who provides a vital service
for every other crafter in town. As a Printer, you have the unique ability to
copy the special Blueprints, patterns and recipes that allow craftsmen to make
the best, rarest and most powerful items, making your services indispensable
whenever new designs hit town or two crafters want to exchange their best trade
secrets. Of course, you’ve got other tricks too– you’re a natural researcher,
you can dabble in less than legal activities on the side, and you have more than
a few tricks to get out of trouble if you get in over your head. Make sure to
advertise your services to every crafter you meet – Cooks, Tinkers, Distillers,
Engineers, Mad Scientists – so that they know who to contact when they need a
copy made of that priceless pattern they’ve got their eye on.

141
 Skill Name
Psionist
Cost Prerequisites
Alert 6 Blind Fighting 6 Blinding 6 Chase 3 Double-Tap 6 Lie 3 Literacy 3 Melee Weapon, Small 3 Mind Resistance 3
Psionic Basic Skill 3
Psionic Intermediate
Skill
Psionic Advanced Skill 6
6 Psionic Basic Skill x2 Per Psionic Intermediate Skill x2 Per
Refuse 3 Throwing 3
Evolution evolved. The next link in the chain. Freak. Whatever they choose to call themselves, Psionists are different. Since the bombs fell, some people have managed to tap into the latent power of the Grave Mind, an ability to manifest one’s will upon the landscape and denizens of the plains of Armageddon. No matter what its origins, it offers strength and survivability in harsh lands.
Play a Psionist If...
    You want to play a dangerous freak with seriously badass psychic powers.
As a Psionist, you have some basic  ghting abilities, but your real strengths
are your mental powers – they are expensive to learn but offer powerful, unique
advantages found in no other profession. You powers are costly to use, however,
so you will want to invest heavily in Mind Points, as well as befriend some
local Cooks, Priests and Entertainers so you can avoid being tapped out at a bad
time. Last but not least, remember that not everyone loves your “gifts”, so be
careful when searching for your fellow psions and watch your back for zealous
types who might look to make an example out of you. It’s a dangerous life, but
it’s not like you can change... and besides, the power is its own reward.
Special: This profession must be taken at character creation – it cannot be taught. There are unique items which allow people to become Psionists, but these items are rare. Players of Psionists should be aware that many outside sources hunt Psions to kill them due to their link to the Grave Mind.
142

 Skill Name
Publican
Cost Prerequisites
Bartender’s Tongue
Beg For Life 3 Charisma 3
Check Quality
Check Your Sleeves 6 Deep Pockets 6
Entertain
First Aide 3 Income 6 Literacy 3
Medical Assistance
Melee Weapon Small 3 Pick Pockets 3
Trade Ties
6 First Aide
6 Deep Pockets
3 Charisma
3 Trade Ties
6 Charisma
Zombies and raiders aren’t typically interested in the  ner things in life; they’re much more intent on destroying what dirty Scraps remain. By contrast, the Publican’s goal is to offer shelter to survivors coming in out of the
wastes, or set up a little slice of home in a small township, someplace warm and comfortable for everyone to come back to. From caravan waystations and bars to hostels and medic tents, Publicans attempt to provide services to their tired, hungry and conversation-starved fellow survivors.
Play A Publican If...
    You want to be the proprietor of a pleasure business in a grim world. As
a Publican, you may operate a bar, a casino or maybe even a “co-ed leisure
establishment”, but no matter what you know how to keep people happy. You are a
natural partner for Distillers and Entertainers, capable of supplying the Herbs
to keep the brews  owing as well as a place for performers to showcase their
talents. You have a knack for gossip and know how to run a clean establishment,
though you’ve picked up a couple of tricks along the way to help you out in a
pinch. Even if it’s not your name above the door, locals know that if you’re
running it, they’ll always get exactly what they want.

143
 Skill Name Cost
Black Market Connections 6 Blind Fighting 6 Brawling 3 Challenge 6 Charge 3 First Aide 3 Income 3 Iron Fists 6 Knockout 6 Nerve Punch 3 Parry 3 Pick Pockets 6 Takedown 3 Teach 0 Torture 6
Prerequisites
Brawling
Brawling
Take Down
Brawling
Brawling
Pugilist
Tools break and weapons jam. The  st, though, is forever. Be it due to a rough and tumble life or pure, desperate need, the Pugilist has learned how to use their  sts and make it count, mastering the ol’ One-Two, perfecting that right hook, and breeding an iron jaw. Life is never easy in these dark times, but the Pugilist trains hard so they can take the worst of it on the chin and keep going for another ten rounds, easy.
Play A Pugilist If...
    You want to play tough-as-nails bare-knuckle brawler, perhaps with a few
shady connections on the side. As a Pugilist, you need to wade into  ghts and
get up close and personal with the bad guys, so be ready to invest in some extra
Health and solid body armor to help you stay in the  ght. You may not have as
many exotic moves as a martial artist, but make up for it with some medical
talents, a couple seriously dirty tricks and a knack for getting in touch with
dangerous people.
144

 Skill Name Cost
Attach 3 Black Market Connections 6 Blinding 3 Bolt Action 3 Charisma 6 Cheat 3 Check Value 3 Chop 3 Disguise 3 Income 3 Mangle Limb 6 Melee Weapon, Standard 3 Scatter Shot 6 Trap Making 6
Prerequisites
Charisma

Ring Leader
Melee Weapon, Standard
Bolt Action
While some are born to follow, the Ring Leader naturally takes charge. Other survivors feel drawn to them, and there’s strength in numbers, so why would they turn them away? Their talent lies in their ability to draw and keep the attention of others, keep them guessing, and keep them organized. A Ring Leader
is more than capable in a  ght –gotta lead by example, right?– but their biggest survival technique is usually keeping a few bodies between them and their aggressors. Whether a gang or posse leader, a cult leader shepherding their  ock, or just someone who would rather let others do their dirty work, Ring Leaders know the danger in going alone. So why risk it?
Play A Ring Leader If...
    You want to be a tough leader who’s not afraid to get their hands dirty.
As a Ring Leader, you combine combat talent, leadership skills and a few dirty
tricks into a vicious –but highly effective– package. Of course, a leader’s
nothing without a gang, so you’ll want to  nd a group of dangerous individuals
in need of someone to organize their capacity for violence and show them exactly
why you deserve to be in charge, whether it’s with honeyed words or broken
limbs. After all, every pack needs an alpha, right?
145
 Skill Name Cost
Avoid 3 Black Market Connections 6 Brewing 6 Carry 3 Check Status 3 Cure Toxins 3 First Aide 3 Guild Member 9 Income 3 Interfere 3 Interrogate 6 Literacy 3 Mangle Limb 6 Medical Assistance 3 Melee Weapon, Small 3 Rescue 3 Sever 3
Prerequisites
Rescue
Literacy
Black Market Connections, Interrogate
Rescue
Melee Weapon, Small
Melee Weapon, Small
Sawbones
You’re a medical professional! Well, kinda. A bit. Maybe. (Sorta.) A combat medic, you don’t have fancy formal training like those snooty Doctors, but you’ve learned the hard way how to patch people up and keep them going, and that’s enough for you.
Play A Sawbones If...
    You want to be a true combat medic with a lot of tricks up your sleeve.
As a Sawbones, you can rescue a fallen comrade from the midst of battle, patch
them up quickly and deliver wicked strikes to anyone who gets in your way. Off
the  eld, you can brew medicines (and hooch!), question prisoners, and make
some seriously shady connections in order to get your hands on the best illicit
supplies to fuel your “practice.”
    Be advised that the Guild has a need for tough medics who don’t ask too many
questions.
146

 Skill Name
Scavenger
Cost Prerequisites
Analyze Creature 3 Avoid 3 Barricade 3 Beg For Life 3 Brawling 3 Check Quality 3 Check Value 3 Chop 3 Cover of Night 6 Escape Bonds 3 Feign Death 3 Melee Weapon, Two-Hand 3
Patch Job
Scrounge 3
They are the brave new world, the unsung heroes of settlement and caravan alike. They are the future, surviving on the bones of the past. Scrappers, Gatherers, Trash-Pickers. Scavengers eke out their living through an uncanny knack for  nding and exploiting the useful pieces of a wasted world. They survive at all costs, and at all costs provide. Without the tireless efforts of the Scavenger, the guns have no ammo, the builders no Scrap, the medics no medicine, and the world no chance.
Play A Scavenger If...
    You want to be capable of pulling valuable raw materials out of just about
any situation. As a Scavenger, you can chop weapons for Scrap and pick up Herbs
and metal you scrounge in the wild, so make sure you spend plenty of time out
searching for raw materials and always be quick to salvage the weapons of fallen
enemies. It’s dangerous to go alone, though, so make sure you bring friends on
your scrounging runs, and make note of the spots you make big  nds. Most any
craftsman has a need for the goods you provide, so introduce yourself around and
let them know when you’re selling.

6 Chop
147
 Skill Name Cost
Attach 3 Backstab 6 Black Market Connections 6 Blinding 6 Bolt Action 3 Brawling 3 Charisma 3 Cheat 6 Choking Blow 3 Disarming Blow 6 Guild Member 6 Interrogate 3 Lie 3 Melee Weapon, Small 3
Prerequisites
Melee Weapon, Small
Charisma
Melee Weapon (Any)
Backstab & Black Market Connections
Scoundrel
There are two types of people in the world: those who play by the rules and those that break them. Scoundrels know that the only way to get the job done
is by breaking every rule. Lying, cheating, stealing, making dangerous friends and always  ghting dirty are just the small cross section of their repertoire,
and while that makes them exceptionally well-rounded criminals, it doesn’t exactly bring respect and admiration. This isn’t aided by the fact that some silver- tongued Scoundrels have been known to talk people into helping them in their illicit activities; their hapless victims unaware until it’s too late.
Play A Scoundrel If...
    You want to be a criminal jack-of-all-trades. As a Scoundrel, no wallet,
body or conscience is safe with you around, and you like it that way. You’ve got
a touch of a con man mixed with a bit of a thug, and connections with all kinds
of dangerous people to back it up. You operate well alone, but also do well as
a Ring Leader’s right hand man, organizing the Thugs, Thieves, Charlatans and
worse to keep things running smoothly.
    Be advised that the Guild watches this profession to see just how deep
you’re willing to go.
148

 Skill Name
Sniper
Cost Prerequisites
Alert 3 Attach 3 Balance 3 Bolt Action 3
Concentrated Fire
Cover of Night 6 Destroy Shield 3 Destroy Weapon 3 Disarming Shot 3
Guild Member
Gun A cionado
Murder Most Foul
Sniped Shot
Vanish 3
6 Bolt Action
6 Murder Most Foul 6 Concentrated Fire 6 Sniped Shot
6 Concentrated Fire
One shot, one kill. Staying far away from your target and shooting before they even know you exist is the easiest way to ensure your enemies stay dead, and you stay alive. Best way to become an expert Sniper? Don’t miss.
Play A Sniper If...
    You want to  re that amazing shot from ambush, drop your enemy and disappear
before anyone knows what happened. As a Sniper, you don’t have all quite the
variety of shooting tricks as a Gun Slinger does, but make up for it with acute
senses and advanced stealth techniques. Oh, and the ability to  re a killing
shot the likes of which most powder jocks could never dream was possible. You
work well with Hunters and other scouts, and while some Snipers fall in with a
sinister crowd, many are just marksmen who love the challenge of making that one
perfect shot. As most Snipers treasure their ri e above all else, you’ll want to
get to know local Tinkers to make sure it’s the best it can be.
    Be advised that the Guild sometimes approaches snipers to see if they want
“regular work.”

149
 Skill Name
Soldier
Cost Prerequisites
Avoid 3 Break Shield 6 Charge 6 Double-Tap 6 Florentine 6 Force Barricade 6 Interfere 3
Charge
Melee Weapon, Standard &
Melee Weapon, Large
Melee
Melee
Melee
Nail
Sever
Shield 3 Throwing, Javelins 3
Weapon Expert 6 Weapon, Large 3 Weapon, Standard 3
3 3
This is a world where the only means if ensuring your own safety is through military force. Trained in both ranged and close combat and operating with greater coordination and discipline than Thugs, Guards and other amateur warriors, it is on the blood, sweat, and tears of Soldiers that the new world will be built.
Play A Soldier If...
    You want to be a well-balanced melee bad-ass, equally at home with two
weapons as you are with a weapon and shield. As a Soldier, you are one of the
most versatile melee  ghters around, with a mix of offensive and defensive
skills that you can tailor to suit your  ghting preferences or even switch up to
meet the needs of the moment. You make a mess of shield walls, you cut down soft
targets easily, you can take down forti ed doors in a hurry and you can make
sure even the toughest zombies don’t get up a second time. In short, Soldier,
you are the heart of the line, so stand strong and let your example inspire the
wannabe warriors around you.
150

 Skill Name
Spy
Cost Prerequisites
Balance 3 Bartender’s Tongue 6 Blinding 3 Chase 3 Cover of Night 6 Disguise 6 Escape 3 Escape Bonds 3 Fade In A Crowd 6 Feign Death 3 Guild Member 6 Income 3 Lie 3 Scrounge 6 Unlock 3
Unlock and Lie
One thing has retained its value from before the fall of society, and that thing is forbidden knowledge. The more that someone does not want some information to come to light, the more others will pay to  nd out what is being hidden. Yours is the profession of getting top money for acquiring dark secrets, vital information, and hot items.
Play A Spy If...
    You enjoy the challenge of learning secrets you’re not meant to know. As a
Spy, your abilities center on getting places you’re not meant to be, avoiding
detection and getting out of trouble. Thieves make good partners when you need
particular items, while Charlatans can help you get close to a target socially,
and Assassins can remove... “complications.” Remember, though, information isn’t
worth much if a target knows you’ve stolen it, or if it gets passed around too
easily, so gather secrets freely but share only with your client. Lastly, a
quiet reputation is good— a well-known spy is soon a retired one.
    Be advised, the Guild is always looking for those with a knack for learning
dark secrets.

151
 Skill Name
Teacher
Cost Prerequisites
3 Literacy 3 Literacy 3 Literacy 3 Literacy
Educated
Feign Death 6 Head Shrink 6
Instruct
Literacy 3
Analyze Compound
Analyze Creature
Check Quality
Check Status
Check Your Sleeves 3
Lore (Any)
Patch Job
Refuse
Teach 0
3 Literacy
3 Literacy
3 Requires in-game teacher 3 Educated
6 Check Your Sleeves
Books are rarer than clean beds. Paper is a luxury that may, one way, run out. And the knowledge of past, present, and future is at risk of being lost forever to anarchy, replaced by how to properly pack a shell or skin a kill. Teachers try to face this crisis with a brave face, imparting what knowledge they can, and spreading some measure of literacy and enlightenment whenever they can. Whether teaching letters to the little ones or a ‘hard knocks’ style weapon specialist,
the Teacher is a rare sight in this age, the knowledge they retain a valuable commodity to those with an eye on the future.
Play A Teacher If...
    You want to have answers to the most dif cult questions, and the tools to
 nd out whatever you don’t already know. As a Teacher, your strength is your
education, which allows you to quickly identify everything from poisons to
animals to whether a person is diseased or insane. Indeed, you are one of the
few who is capable of treating insanity, so expect your services to be called on
when survivors emerge from the Morgue. You also learn Lore skills quite cheaply,
and since these represent rare and valuable information, always be alert for
the chance to learn them when you can. Expect to invest in Mind Points, as
researching your Lore skills and curing insanity are both costly.
152

 Skill Name
Thief
Cost Prerequisites
Avoid 6 Attach 3 Blinding 6
Black Market Connections Disguise 6 Escape 3 Escape Bonds 6 Fade In A Crowd 6 Feign Death 3 Lie 3 Melee Weapon, Small 3 Pick Pockets 6 Scrounge 3 Trap Making 6 Unlock 3
The best items are often found in locked boxes, tight pockets and behind barricaded doors. While some people still respect the concept of personal property, you have a more pragmatic approach– whoever can hold onto items, keeps them. After all, they say possession is nine-tenths of the law, which puts you in the right more often than not...
Play A Thief If...
    You want be able to look at most any item and say, “Yeah, that could be
mine, no problem.” As a Thief, you have an incredible arsenal of tricks when it
comes to bypassing hazards and getting your hands on other people’s things, as
well as getting out of trouble if anyone catches on and back market contacts to
fence the good after. You make an excellent partner for a Spy or “acquisitions”
expert for a Scoundrel, Ring Leader or Charlatan. Not that you must necessarily
be a criminal – making and selling traps is a respectable living, and quite
a few thieves work as “security experts”, showing settlements where they’re
vulnerable. Whatever you do, remember that the best targets are the ones you’re
not likely to see again– robbing your fellow townsfolk is a risky gamble indeed.
Note: All in-game theft requires a Staff Member be present. OOC items cannot be taken.

6 Pick Pockets And Lie
153
 Skill Name
Thug
Cost Prerequisites
Barricade 3 Bolt Action 6 Brawling 3 Carry 3 Force Barricade 3 Frightening Force 6
Melee
Melee
Melee
Melee
Patch
Sever
Shield 3
Take Down
6
3 Brawling
Weapon Expert
Weapon, Large 3 Weapon, Small 3 Weapon, Standard 3 Job 3
3 Melee Weapon, Std. & Large
Fighting is easy – shoot it, stab it or beat it until whatever you’re hitting stops moving. You don’t need fancy gestures or slippery motions to avoid attacks; that sort of show-boating will just get you killed. No, all you need to get your point across is a truly excessive amount of violence, applied in focused manner. Once people see that up close, you  nd you seldom have to ask for anything twice.
Play A Thug If...
    You want to be a serious melee  ghter who’s not afraid to kick down a door
to get to your target. As a Thug, there’s nothing subtle about what you do –
you pick up a weapon and put down enemies. Fortunately for you, you’re damn
good at the job. You hit hard –really hard– and even reinforced barriers have a
way of toppling when you come knocking. In a pinch you’re not bad on defense,
especially with a shield in your hand, but you de nitely have the most fun
when you’re cracking skulls. You make excellent muscle for take charge types
like Ring Leaders or Publicans, and you can also be a solid “offense is the
best defense” sort of bodyguard for Charlatans, Politicians and other delicate
 owers. Invest in serious armor as well as some nasty-looking weapons, and wait
for the fun to begin.
154

 Skill Name
Tinker
Cost Prerequisites
Analyze Compound 3
Building Tomorrow
Check Quality 3
Chop
Educated
Improved
Improved
Improved
Income
Literacy
Master Craftsman
Patch Job 3 Repair 3
SCIENCE!
6 Educated
Armor
Pistol/Bow
Weapon
6 Literacy
3
3 Literacy
6 Educated
6 Educated
6 Educated
3
3
6 Improved Armor, Pistol/Bow, Weapon
In a world where everything seems to be falling apart or already destroyed, a Tinker often seems to be the only person who can actually put it back together. At an early age, Tinkers began to investigate the world around them, poking, prodding and examining anything they could get their hands on. Armed with a sharp mind and skilled hands, they see the desolate landscape for its true potential. They know that with some time, materials and a little elbow grease, anything can be  xed or improved.
Play A Tinker ...
    You want to be the best around at building, repairing and improving weapons,
armor and other essential items. As a Tinker, you are a crafter  rst and
foremost, and the only profession capable of improving weapons and armor to make
them more powerful. This makes you a friend to most everyone in this dangerous
world, and particularly such hazard enthusiasts as Gun Slingers, Snipers,
Soldiers, Assassins and other lovers of improved and specialty combat gear. You
need a lot of Scrap metal to do your work, so chop what you can and befriend
Scavengers, Fishmongers, Engineers, Caravan Drivers and other steel hounds so
you know where to go when you need more metal.

155
 Introduction to Skills
Skills represent unique abilities that players cannot easily or safely represent during the duration of a game weekend. Skills also allow for players to streamline skills and activities that normally would require a number of hours
(or months) of work in a period of time that is much more satisfying for a gaming experience.
    Skills are provided a series of mechanics which outline what the Skill is
capable of doing.  On occasion a player may build or come across equipment or
gear that allows for Skills to be used and modi ed in different ways.  Items
exist in play such as Trade Route cards, Big Dig Equipment, or Engineering Tools
to name a few.  These unique cards allow for the mechanics and effects of the
use of a skill to change, or allow for a simple modi cation of Mind Point costs
for using the Skill.
    Whenever a player is using a Skill, the Skill listed speci cally does ONLY
what the mechanics of the Skill states unless the player has a mechanic changing
Physical Representation and Item Card with them.
    In life, as soon as a rule is written down, the debate in regards to the
scope and design of a Skill begins.  Over the generations people have spent
their lives attempting to create written documents that outline every potential
instance, scenario, and implementation of a rule.  Lawyers can spend years
debating and interpreting laws.  Philosophers can spend lifetimes debating
religious outlines and their meanings.  In the world as a whole, almost no rule
is going to be completely immune from interpretation.
    With this in mind, we have attempted to change the design of Skills from
a technical documentation to more of an easy to read and understand ‘spoken
format.’  It is our hope that by explaining the spirit of the rule and outlining
speci cally what the rule does, we can avoid as much rules argument as possible.
With the concept of explaining the spirit and mechanics of the rules in mind;
instead of giving a stereo instruction style listing of just mechanics, we will
be outlining what the individual Skill mechanics are capable of doing.
    The outlined mechanics for what a Skill does is the limits of how a Skill
can be applied.  In the past players would look at the name of a Skill and infer
and guess how they could use that Skill in their day to day game experience.
Now players will read what a Skill does, and unless a mechanic providing device
states otherwise, that is all the Skill will do.
    Regardless of our efforts, we KNOW that despite the years of testing,
taking feedback, applied review, and hard work of professional writers and
editors, there STILL will be items that we need to clarify for the network.
It is our hope that we can keep these clari cations to a minimum; however,
what clari cations we do need to provide will be provided on a Network level
on the Dystopia Rising LARP Network home page.  This way any confusion or
interpretation is settled across the entire Network instead of being interpreted
on a branch by branch basis.
156

 Alert
Analyze Compound
Analyze Creature
Animal Handler
Attach
Avoid
Backstab
Balance
Bartender’s Tongue
Barricade
Beg For Life
Big Dig
Black Market
Connections
Bless Weapon
Blind Fighting
Blinding
Bold Action
Bomb Awareness
Bounce
Bow
Brawling
Break Armor
Break Shield
Break Weapon
Brew Master
Brewing
Building Tomorrow
Call the Almighty
Carry
Challenge
Charge
Charisma
Chase
Cheat
Check
Check
Check
Check Your Sleeves
Choking Blow
Chop
Concentrated Fire
Cover of Night
Crop Tending
Cure Toxins
Deep Pockets
Destroy Armor
Destroy Shield
Destroy Weapon
Disarming Blow
Disarming Shot
Disguise
Disguise Contents
Double-Tap
Educated
Entertain
Escape
Escape Bonds
Fade In A Crowd
Faith Healing
Fearful Glare
Feign Death
First Aide
Fishing
Fix Limb
Florentine
Force Barricade
Forging the Future
Frightening Force
Guild Member
Gun A cionado
Head Shrink
Healthy Feast
Holy Rites
Hunter’s Mark
Improved Armor/
       Shield
Improved Pistol/Bow
Improved Weapon
Income
Instruct
Interfere
Interrogate
Iron Fists
Knock Down
Knockout
Lie
Literacy
Lore
Mangle Limb
Master Craftsman
Medical Assistance
Medical Genius
Melee
Melee
Melee
Melee
Weapon Expert
Weapon, Large
Weapon, Small
Weapon,

Quality
Status
Value
       wStandard
Melee Weapon, Two
Handed
Mind Resistance
Murder Most Foul
Nail
Nerve Punch
Parry
Patch Job
Pick Pockets
Pistol Whip
Prepare Meal
Pray for Justice
Psionic Skill: Basic
Psionic Skill:
       Intermediate
Psionic Skill:
       Advanced
Refuse
Repair
Rescue
Sailing
Scatter Shot
SCIENCE!
Scrounge
Sever
Shield
Smelt
Sniped Shot
Society Membership
Take Down
Teach
Throwing
Throwing, Javelins
Tie Bonds
Torture
Trade Ties
Transcribe
Trap Making
Unlock
Vanish
Weld
Wide Strike
List of All Skills
157
 Skill Descriptions
The following is an alphabetical listing of the basic Skills available to players in Dystopia Rising. Advanced Professions have unique Skills that are not listed here, but instead listed under their Advanced Profession heading. Many creatures also have special abilities that may not be listed here. When using a Skill, the Mind Points costs of that Skill are expended regardless of success or failure in regards to the Skill use. Missed strikes, misuse of Skills, unnecessary expenditures, parried attacks, and resisted skills are all considered expended uses of the Mind Points.
Alert (MP-5)
     This skill counters all stealth Skills, such as Vanish, Fade In A Crowd,
Whisper Walk or Cover of Night, as well as any other effects that actively hide
a single character. In order for Alert to work, the target has to be in your
line of sight (that means that if they’re hiding behind a tree or you can only
hear them, you’re out of luck). You then need to spend 5 Mind Points, point
toward the other person using a stealth Skill and say “Alert!”  When using the
skill Alert, the stealth effect that the targeted player was using immediately
drops.  This skill means that your character has sharp senses and/or superior
training. Using it should not be seen as “meta-gaming” in any way. If your
character is targeted with Alert and was using a stealth Skill, then you can’t
use another stealth Skill for at least 1 minute after Alert was used. (This does
not apply to targets using Flight or Burrowing as a means of disappearing.)
Analyze Compound (MP-1)
    This Skill counters Disguise Contents. In order to use this skill, spend
1 Mind Point and then declare “Analyze Compound” while examining a substance
(like a Brew or a Meal). This automatically gives you details about the single
unknown brewed substance. Usually, this means that you get to read the attached
Item Card, though certain rare or plot-speci c brews may require speaking to
game staff at Logistics. You can also use Analyze Compound to uncover ‘spiked’
food or drink. In certain plot-speci c situations, you might also be able to use
this Skill to get more details after spending more time roleplaying an intensive
examination of a compound; these situations will be announced by storytelling
staff when available.
Analyze Creature (MP-1)
     This Skill is countered by Disguise. In order to use the Skill, spend 1
Mind Point and say “Analyze Creature, what are you?” The character (whether a
NPC or a PC), will then tell you relevant details per Mind Point that you spend.
To activate this Skill you must actively role play analyzing a target; this may
include measuring the creature’s limbs, roleplaying dissecting the creature, and
other actions for a minimum of 30 seconds before Skill use. At bare minimum, a
player must be within 10 steps of a target, observing the target without using
any other Skills or engaging in combat, before using the Analyze Creature Skill.
You cannot simply point at a creature located across a  eld and learn about it.
Analyze Creature reveals only creature name, creature type, overall threat level
- 1, 2, or 3 - with 3 assumed for sentient beings and any vulnerabilities. In
certain plot-speci c situations, this Skill may also provide more details; such
opportunities will be announced by storytelling staff when available.
Animal Handler (MP-NIL)
158

 We all need to eat, right? Raising animals for food and supplies is an important part of survival. If you have Animal Handler, during the Check In process you can receive one of the following Produce/Named Herbs/Scraps for each level of the skill you possess (player’s choice): Milk, Beef, Eggs, Chicken, Lamb, or Wool. This Skill may be purchased up to 5 times; each new purchase requires a teacher who has more levels of the Skill than you currently possess. This Skill may only be used by a character at their home game.
Attach (MP-Variable)
     This Skill is countered by Bomb Awareness. This Skill allows a character
to mount and prime an existing Trap to go off when triggered. By spending 5 Mind
Points and 5 Minutes per Crafts Level of the Trap, the trapper may install the
Trap in an appropriate location and trigger as speci ed on the Trap card. When a
Trap is placed, you must use a length of black thread to mark the trigger of the
Trap, with the Trap card attached to at least one portion of the string.
Container Trap: String hung inside of lid
Door Trap: String running from door to door frame
Trip Line: String running from anchor object to anchor object (non door/container) Pressure Plate: String outlining trigger area. Breaking, touching, pulling
on, or stepping within the bounds of an outlined trigger results in the Trap
activating. Trap triggers should never be strung above chest level for safety
reasons. Physical representation of the trap is not required, but strongly
encouraged.
    This Skill can also be used to disarm visible traps. By spending 2 Mind
Points and 10 Minutes per Crafts Level of the Trap, the trapper may remove the
Trap without triggering it. Note that the Trap is destroyed by this process, and
cannot be re-used. This Skill cannot remove applied poisons.
    Attaching or disarming a trap requires 2 hands, and can be interrupted if
the trapper is forced away from target location, uses combat Skills, or takes
any damage. If interrupted, the Trap is not expended or triggered, but all Mind
Points invested are lost. The time to disarm or attach a trap can be reduced by
spending an additional 2 Mind Points to reduce the required time by 5 Minutes
per expenditure. The minimum time to attach or disarm a Trap is 1 Minute.
Avoid (MP-5)
     This Skill counters Concentrated Fire, Destroy Shield, Destroy Weapon,
Disarming Shot, Scatter Shot, Sniped Shot, Knockout, and any other successful,
ranged targeted attacks. In order to use this skill, spend 5 Mind Points and
clearly say “Avoid!” This skill is ineffective against Area of Effect attacks
(such as bombs or “By My Voice” effects), as they do not target the user
individually.
Backstab (MP-5)
     Sometimes you just need to get past that armor. By spending 5 Mind Points,
you can say “Backstab, X Body!” and strike an enemy in the back torso area with
a Small melee weapon. This causes the strike to slip past all armor and deal
damage to the person’s body directly. Damage from backstab strikes may not be
prevented, reduced by, or applied to armor of any kind, even if that armor would
normally protect against such damage.
Balance (MP-1 or 5)

159
     This Skill counters Knockdown and Take Down. By spending 5 Mind Points,
you can call “Balance” and ignore one use of either Knockdown or Take Down. In
addition, in situations such as walking across narrow paths, this Skill allows
the user to receive one foot additional width on either side to represent their
great sense of balance. Balance costs 1 Mind Point per use, and lasts for 10
paces or 1 minute, whichever comes  rst.
Bartender’s Tongue (MP-Nil)
What’s the word? This Skill allows a player to come into game with additional knowledge, including rumors and other inside information about what’s been happening around town. To use this Skill, during Check In register that
you have Bartender’s Tongue and you will be allowed to read a special list. This list will not be accessible later on during the event, so make sure that you memorize all the scuttlebutt that you think is important! This Skill may only be used by a character at their home game.
Barricade (MP-Variable)
     This Skill is countered by Force Barricade. While anyone can guard a
doorway, it’s the truly desperate that will try to block one. It takes a certain
degree of thought and effort to be able to barricade a door in a way that
makes it defensible as well as extremely dif cult to pass through. For every 2
Mind Points and 2 minutes that you spend roleplaying its creation, an in-game
Barricade may be created. This Barricade will have a Crafts Level equal to every
two points invested in its creation. For example: If you spend 4 minutes and
4 Mind Points, you’ll wind up with a Barricade with a Crafts Level of 2. It’s
important to note that a doorway should never actually be obstructed (we’d like
to avoid personal injuries, and there are  re safety reasons).  Also note that
attacking players should never attempt to kick open or otherwise forcefully
attempt entry. Instead, this Skill allows the user to af x a standard size index
card to the outside of the door listing the Barricade’s Crafts Level. If players
wish to add levels to the Barricade, they must repeat the crafting process to
add Crafts Levels. You may attempt to add to a Barricade while it is under
attack, though it should be noted it is a lot faster to tear one down than build
one up.
    Anyone looking to breach a Barricade must make loud knocking sounds, banging
on the door with their weapons a total of 10 times, counting to 3 between each
‘assault.’ Each time this cycle is completed, the Crafts Level of the Barricade
is lowered by 1. When the Crafts Level reaches zero, the Barricade is destroyed
or “breached.” Once a Barricade has been breached, the doorway is open and
cannot have a Barricade built on it for 10 minutes.
Beg For Life (MP-1)
     This Skill counters Killing Blows, but is countered by Refuse. If under
the effects of Choking Blow, you cannot use this skill. Sometimes, all you can
do is plead. This Skill allows a player to beg for their life and not receive
immediate Killing Blows. Each declaration of “Beg For Life” costs 1 Mind Point,
and prevents any Killing Blows from being called for either 2 minutes or until
the user of Beg For Life takes any action other than groveling for their
very existence. Beg For Life is an area effect, and not targeted at a single
individual. Beg For Life is different from most other Skills in that it can be
used during Bleed Out as well as before Bleed Out.
Big Dig (MP-Nil)
160

 Some people specialize in making money, some people specialize in growing things. Someone with Big Dig specializes in  nding  stuff (we’re being nice by not calling it “junk”). This skill is most often used at Check In to receive random ‘stuff’ - the ‘artifacts’ pulled up by Big Dig are completely randomized. Typically, it will be little more than Basic Scrap, Basic Herb, or a local currency. Rarely, it may even be a dud. But there’s always a chance that you might actually  nd a real artifact of some kind, a useful trade good, or even special plot items. In certain plot speci c instances, this Skill may also be used during an event to represent archaeological prowess; these opportunities will be announced by the storytelling staff. This Skill may be purchased up to 5 times, allowing for increased skill at  nding things. Learning additional levels requires a teacher who has more levels of the Skill than you currently possess.
When checking in at Logistics the staff has a listing of 5 different dif culties of Big Dig locations. The largest Big Dig locations have the largest threats, but also provide the greatest reward. A player may start at any level of Big Dig that they would like, up to the cap of their Big Dig score (a character with 4 levels of Big Dig may start at a level 1,2,3, or 4 dif culty but NOT level 5). The player gets one roll per level of Big Dig that they have on their sheet, and they may LOWER the level they are doing their rolls at in between results. Taking the same example of a player with 4 ranks of Big Dig, if they started at rank 4 and received a large volume of damage from a Big Dig gone bad, they may in turn choose to go to a lower dif culty level for their next 3 Big Dig pulls. Big Dig is capable of killing character at rank 3 and above, so players are HIGHLY RECOMMENDED to cut ties and go to easier levels
if their Big Dig is starting to go poorly. This Skill may only be used by a character at their home game.
Black Market Connections (MP-Nil)
     There are those who slide under the law—who rest in the underbelly of a
settlement. A person with this
Skill has connections with the
Black Market and may discreetly
contact with them without fear
of repercussions, as well as
utilize their many services. Black
Market Connections may fence hot
items for you, launder money,
sell certain forbidden goods or even connect you with people who need... “work” done. This Skill costs no Mind Points, and usually requires talking to storytelling Staff Members at Logistics. For the purpose of check in usage, this Skill may only be used by
a character at their home game.
If a character with Black Market
Connections  nds out, in character,
where a Black Market meeting is in
character when they are traveling
to another game, nothing prevents
them from attending the meeting.
Bless Weapon (MP-5)
     This Skill allows a player to

161
 Bless a melee, brawling, ranged, or  rearm weapon so that it gains the “Blessed”
trait for the duration of one day (until midnight). In order to use this skill,
place a hand on the chosen weapon and call “Bless Weapon” while spending 5 Mind
Points. Certain religious items may require Bless Weapon to operate, as well
as successful performance of particular religious rituals. Blessed weapons may
in ict additional damage and/or bypass damage reduction with regards to some
enemies, especially the undead. For clarity, add “Blessed (Faith)” to the damage
called with affected weapons; for example, if a sword that in icts 5 damage and
is Blessed by the Final Knights, the damage call would be “5 Blessed Knights!”
each time it hits.  Bless Weapon is not primarily used as a damage augmentation
tactic, but instead a means to imbue faith into objects that require it for
operation.
Blind Fighting (MP-1)
     This Skill counters Blinding as well as Gizmos and situational effects
that would make you blind. Sometimes, it pays to practice  ghting with closed
eyes. This Skill allows you to continue to attack and defend with all forms of
brawling, melee, bolt action, and bow attacks--despite having blinded effects.
In order to use this Skill, say “Blind Fighting” and spend 1 Mind Point. This
cancels 1 use of the Blinding skill. If you’re using Blind Fighting, you may
still use Parry, Avoid, Refuse, Mind Resistance, or Bounce; you may not use
Skill augmented attacks, escape, stealth skills, thrown weapons, javelins,
thrown Gizmos, or psionics until the Blinding effect ends.
Blinding (MP-5)
     This Skill is defended against partially with Blind Fighting. This Skill
can also be countered by Parry if the blow is dealt from the front. Fighting
fair only gets you so far, and this Skill proves it. By spending 5 Mind Points
and making a successful melee or ranged attack to the torso area, you may call
“Blinding” and blind your opponent. This deals zero damage, but causes your
target to use no Skills (other than Blind Fighting) and prevents them from
running, walking away, attacking, blocking or avoiding strikes for 10 seconds.
Bolt Action (MP-Nil)
     This Skill allows you to wield a single  rearm. Using this Skill costs
zero Mind Points; however, it requires a prop  rearm to be present in one hand
while packets are thrown from the other. Alternately, an approved weapon may  re
contact safe toy darts instead of using thrown packets.  As mechanical options
change for foam dart toy weapons, the staff of Dystopia Rising needs to adjust
what is and is not approved for regular use with a regularity that requires
live updates instead of printed changes.  With this in mind, please check the
Dystopia Rising LARP network standards for what single action foam dart Physical
Representations are approved for play.  All dart guns must be approved on a
branch by branch basis, the same as melee weapons, for safety. Players entering
game with a  rearm may only begin with a total of twenty contact safe toy  rearm
darts, but no limit to the number of packets that they have. Ammo  red may not
be picked up in combat, but may be retrieved when the dust has settled. This
represents how more ammo is quickly repacked. As ammo is lost and unable to
be recovered, so is a portion of the total ammo a  rearms user has available.
Standard  rearms do a base 3 Damage before improvements.
162

     All weapon props must be approved before entering game; see the Logistics
section for more details. A list of approved toy  rearms can be found at the
Dystopia Rising website. Some rules of thumb apply: it must be single shot or
bolt action (no automatic  ring weapons); it must  re soft, toy ammunition that
does not require eye protection; and while decorating weapons is encouraged, it
should always retain a clearly visible bright orange safety tip.
Bomb Awareness (MP-5)
     This Skill counters Attach (to an extent). In order to use this skill,
spend 5 Mind Points and say “Bomb Awareness.” This allows you to take back an
action that triggered a trap. This Skill must be used IMMEDIATELY after the
action was taken. Bomb Awareness does not grant knowledge of how to disarm the
trap, where it is located or even the exact nature of the trap. However, the
Skill allows you to have a type of sixth sense that a trap is present, as well
as the fact that you should avoid that speci c triggering action.
Bounce (MP-1)
     This Skill counters ranged attacks that successfully target a shield or
weapon. This includes Concentrated Fire, Destroy Shield, Destroy Weapon, Sniped
Shot and Scatter Shot— assuming the packets or darts hit the shield or weapon.
In order to use this Skill, say “Bounce!” and spend 1 Mind Point in order to
de ect a single  rearms, thrown weapon, or bow attack by using a shield or melee
weapon, negating its effects. This attack must have struck the shield or the
weapon instead of the player itself and costs 1 Mind Point per de ected shot.
Bounce may only de ect damage equal to or less than three times the Crafts Level
of the shield or weapon. For example, a Crafts 1 shield can Bounce a 3 damage
shot, while a Crafts 10 shield can bounce a 30 point shot.
Bow (MP-Nil)
This Skill costs no Mind Points to use, and allows you to wield a simple bow
and arrow. Bows allow you to use ranged combat skills available to both  rearms
and thrown weapons. For example, a character with a bow could use Nail, which
is normally performed with thrown weapons, as well as Concentrated Fire, which normally employs  rearms. Standard bows do a base 2 Damage before improvements
and are represented with an approved contact safe bow and packets. Each thrown packet requires your throwing hand to touch the bow and then ‘draw’ the packet before  ring. Real bows, that are capable of  ring real arrows, are not allowed at Dystopia Rising. Fake bows, that are not capable of  ring real arrows, are allowed.
Brawling (MP-Nil)
Sometimes you just need to punch something. This Skill allows you to carry
two small size melee boffers to represent  sts. These boffers must be colored white to differentiate them from regular weapons. Damage is still taken when blocking incoming strikes, as they are part of the body. However, use of two brawling boffers does not require the Florentine skill, and they cannot be disarmed or broken like normal weapons (though the arm can still be Mangled). Brawling may
be used off hand of a melee or bolt action weapon, with a brawling beater being wielded in the off hand. Effects such as ‘Iron Fists’ require a brawling physical representation to be in a characters hand to bene t from the bonuses of Knucks or brawling Skill augments. Brawling strikes do a base 1 damage each. Brawling can
be augmented with items such as brass knuckles, usually just called “Knucks,” which are represented by certain colored tape. Unless otherwise stated on the crafting print, Knucks do not block incoming damage. Only Iron Fists allows an individual to block using their Brawling Skill without taking damage.

163
 Break Armor (MP-10)
     This Skill can be countered by Parry if the strike is from the front. All
armor has weak spots, and you know how to exploit them. By declaring “Break
Armor” and making a successful melee attack, you can render a target’s armor
useless until it is repaired. This attack costs 10 Mind Points, in icts zero
damage, and must strike the armor itself.
Break Shield (MP-5)
     This Skill can be countered by Parry. With a single successful melee attack
that strikes a shield, you can declare “Break Shield!” and render a shield
useless until it is repaired. This attack costs 5 Mind Points, in icts zero
damage, and must strike the target shield to work.
Break Weapon (MP-5)
     This Skill can be countered by Parry, as long as the strike is from the
front. With a single melee attack, you can declare “Break Weapon!” and render a
single melee weapon, bolt action weapon, or bow useless until it is repaired.
Natural weapons such as brawling boffers are unaffected by Break Weapon.
Brawling augmenting Gizmos, such as Knucks, are not effected by Break Weapon if
they are being wielded.  However, Break Weapon may be used on Brawling augmented
Gizmos if they are not currently being held (easier to hit a piece of metal on
a table than a thin strip on a moving hand). This attack costs 5 Mind Points,
in icts zero damage, and must strike the target weapon to work. When using Break
Weapon on a  rearm, you must strike the arm holding the  rearm instead of the
gun (since most  rearms are not boffer-safe props).
Brew Master (MP-Variable)
    This Skill allows a character to get even more potency out of their Brews.
During the Brewing process the Brew Master may spend an additional 2 Mind
Points, 1 Rare Herb, and 10 Minutes of time roleplaying brewing at a Still,
up to 5 times for a maximum of 10 Mind, 5 Rare Herb, and 50 Minutes. For each
use of Brew Master, the resulting Brew’s Craft’s Level is increased by 1, and
the Brew Master may choose to either increase the Brew’s Numerical Effect by 1
or extend its effect’s duration by 5 Minutes so long as the duration does not
exceed 1 Hour. Note that in the case of brews with multiple numerical effects
(restoring 5 Mind and 5 Body, for example), that all numerical effects are
increased by 1. Many Brewing Recipes require Brew Master to unlock their full
potential.
    During the process of production a player may only use one item to
manipulate crafting times or production results, unless the used items
speci cally state that they stack with other items.
    Unless a piece of equipment, Gizmo, or mechanical device states otherwise
a Brew may not be improved with Brew Master beyond crafts level 6.  This is
important to remember for brews that start at Crafts Levels higher than 1, as
well as brews that allow for additional doses to be created with higher crafts
levels.
164

 Brewing (MP-Variable)
    This Skill allows a character to distill powerful liquids from Herbs that
have a variety of unique effects. By spending 2 Mind Points and 20 Minutes at
a Still roleplaying brewing, the crafter may take the required Herb cards to
Logistics to be traded in for a new Item Card. All brews start at Crafts Level
1 unless otherwise speci ed and have an expiration of 1 year. Crafting requires
2 hands, and can be interrupted if the crafter leaves the area within 5 feet of
the Still, utilizes any combat Skills, or falls into Bleed Out. If the process
is interrupted, all Mind Points spent and materials invested are lost. Some
abilities or items may reduce the time requirement for Brewing. The minimum time
for Brewing, without the assistance of an Able Helper, is 5 minutes.
    All brews, once produced, require an appropriately sized physical
representation to be used (as near a volume as possible). Brews can be
administered one of four ways. Applied to target, Inhaled by target, Ingested
by target, or Injected into target. Applied Brews may only be applied to an
appropriate target, such as an item, person, or weapon. Applied brews that
require a weapon strike do not affect armored health. Injectable brews may be
self-administered during Bleed Out. Injected and ingested brews may not be
administered to an unwilling target that is not Bound, Knocked Out, or in Bleed
Out. Note that this does not prevent an unaware target from consuming a brew
themselves.
    During the process of production a player may only use one item to
manipulate crafting times or production results unless the used items
speci cally state that they stack with other items.
    The following table lists recipes automatically known by everyone with this
Skill. Note that other recipes may be discovered in game with their own Mind,
Skill, and Resource requirements to produce. Non-standard recipes must present
while roleplaying Brewing, and presented to Logistics when getting the new item
issued.
Name and Volume
Generic Brew, 36 oz
Hooch, 1 liter
Snake Oil, 6 oz
Cough and Cold, 6 oz
Liquid Gold, 6 oz
Spirit Walk, 6 oz
Water of Life, 6 oz
Dirty Water, 6 oz
Stats
 No game mechanics,
but can be sold for in
game currency (teas,
juices, etc). Counts as 3
servings.
 Basic Alcohol, Ingested
 Heals 5, Ingested
 Removes Toxin, Ingested
Melee Damage +1, Ingested 30 Minute Duration
 Hallucinations,Ingested
 30 Minute Duration
 Removes Toxins, Heals 20
 +4 Damage via Radiation
 Applied Single Strike
Required Resources   Value
Basic Herb x1        n/a
Basic Herb x1        1
Basic Herb x3        5
Basic Herb x1        10
Uncommon Herb x2
Basic Herb x1        10
Rare Herb x2
Uncommon Herb x3     10

Rare Herbs x3
20
Uncommon Scrap x1    20
Rare Herbs x2
165
 Building Tomorrow (MP-Variable)
This Skill allows a character to take Scrap and build new items. By spending 3 Mind Points and 30 Minutes at a Workbench roleplaying the fabrication, the crafter may take the required Scrap cards to Logistics to be traded in for a new Item Card. All items start at Crafts Level 1 and have a  ve year expiration date unless otherwise speci ed. While roleplaying making the item, you must make a signi cant amount of noise (there is no “quiet” crafting!). Crafting requires 2 hands, and can be interrupted if the crafter leaves the area within 5 feet of the Workbench, utilizes any additional Skills, or
falls into Bleed Out. If the process is interrupted, all Mind Points spent and materials invested are lost. Some abilities or items may reduce the time requirement for Building Tomorrow. The minimum time, without the assistance of an Able Helper, is 10 minutes.
During the process of production a player may only use one item to manipulate crafting times or production results unless the used items speci cally state that they stack with other items.
The following table lists blueprints automatically known by everyone with this Skill. Note that other blueprints may be discovered in-game with their own Mind,
Skill, and Resource requirements to produce. Non-standard blueprints must present while roleplaying crafting, and presented to Logistics when getting the new item issued.
Name of Item
 Small Melee Weapon
 Standard Melee Weapon
 Large Melee Weapon
 Two Handed Melee Weapon
 Small Thrown Weapon
 Javelin
 Bow
 Patchwork Armor
 Shield
 Shooter
 Universal Crafted Items
166
Stats
Crafts 1
Damage 2
Value 5
Crafts 1
Damage 2
Value 10
Crafts 1
Damage 2/3
Value 15
Crafts 1
Damage 3
Value 15
Crafts 1
Damage 2
Value 10
Crafts 1
Damage 3
Value 15
Crafts 1
Damage 2
Value 15
Crafts 1
Armor 20
Value 20
Crafts 1
Value 15
Crafts 1
Damage 3
Value 30
See Universal Crafted
Item List
Required Resources
Basic Scrap x2
Basic Scrap x3
Basic Scrap x4
Basic Scrap x5
Basic Scrap x1
Uncommon Scrap x1
Uncommon Scrap x2
Uncommon Scrap x2
Basic Scrap x10
Basic Scrap x5
Basic Scrap x2
Uncommon Scrap x2
Rare Scrap x1

 Call the All Mighty (MP-10)
     Sometimes all it takes is a little faith to get by. By calling upon divine
intervention, you momentarily become a conduit for your deity, capable of
miraculous healing powers. By placing both of your hands on a wounded target,
spending 10 Mind Points, and verbally calling on their deity to intercede you
can completely heal a wounded (but not dead) target other than yourself. The
target (another target) is brought back up to their maximum Health Points and
all mangled or severed limbs are repaired. However, derangements and poison/
disease effects are not removed, and certain long-term “signature” physical
injuries that are part of a character’s costuming or back story may remain at
the discretion of the staff or the affected player. A player may use this Skill
only 2 times per Twelves, and at least 30 minutes of active prayer to that
character’s particular ‘Almighty’ are required within 2 hours after each use.
This is an impressive capability, but one that carries a high cost in devotion
as well: if the user ever fails to pray for the required amount of time, or acts
against their god’s will, this power may cause up to 100 body damage to the user
of the Skill, or if prayer regularly ignored, the Skill be permanently removed
from that player’s sheet. A player who has been affected by Choking Blow, or
similar Choking Blow affects from equipment, may not use Call the All Mighty.
Carry (MP-Variable)
     This Skill allows you to lift and carry large weights for short periods
of time. You cannot use this Skill while under the effects of a Mangled Leg and
must have at least one functional Arm. For every 1 Mind Point, the character’s
strength is increased by 1, for up to 20 paces or 5 minutes, whichever is
shorter. To use this Skill, you must call “Carry X!” with “X” being the total
Mind Points spent plus 1 (all characters are assumed to have a base strength of
1). So long as you have strength equal to an object’s Carry Rating, you may move
at a walking pace. If you have strength greater than the object’s Carry Rating,
you may move at full speed. You cannot normally Carry more than two objects,
regardless of your strength.  To represent carrying a person, gently grip your
target’s hand after calling the effect and then walk your paces. All characters
have a Carry Rating of 1, unless otherwise speci ed. Carry may only be used on
willing targets or targets that are Knocked Out, Bound, or in Bleed Out.
Challenge (MP-5)
     This Skill can be countered by Refuse or Choking Blow, assuming Choking
Blow is used  rst. Knowing how to get someone’s blood up can be useful in a
 ght. By pointing out a single target, spending 5 Mind Points, and obviously
challenging them to combat, you can cause your target to only attack you if
it wants to  ght. (As an example for challenging a Yorker, you can say: “Hey,
Rust monkey! I hear you snuggle with Bay Walkers! Challenge!”) You will become
the sole focus of that target’s ire; however, the effect of this Skill ends if
the target is attacked by others, leaving it free to attack as it sees  t (or
stop  ghting altogether). Note that Challenge does not compel a target to start
 ghting, only ensures that if they do, they must attack only you. Challenge is
not and cannot be subtle in any way, shape, or form, and as such is seen as
obviously picking a  ght by onlookers. If the user of Challenge runs away from
the  ght, is no longer visible or otherwise cannot be reached by the target,
this Skill’s effects end.

167
 Charge (MP-5)
     This Skill can be countered by Parry if you strike the person from the
front. Rushing into battle isn’t always a bad thing. By declaring “Charge!”
and expending 5 Mind Points, your  rst strike against a new target has its
damage doubled. Charge may only be used the  rst time engaging a target in a
combat, and requires the user to have both feet  rmly planted before striking
for this ‘charged’ attack. Charge cannot be combined with Backstab, Murder, or
Frightening Force; however it may be combined with other Skills. Do not actually
strike a target harder when using the ‘charge’ Skill.
Charisma (MP-1)
     This Skill can be countered by Refuse or Choking Blow, assuming Choking
Blow is used  rst.  Well, aren’t you charismatic? In order to use this Skill,
you need to talk to your chosen target for at least 5 minutes. After that time,
you can spend 1 Mind Point and then declare “Charisma.” This causes your target
to become temporarily enthralled. While this will not cause a target to do self-
destructive things, give away items or go against deeply held personal beliefs,
it will cause them to treat the user as their best friend for 10 minutes.
Treating the person under the effects of Charisma poorly, or outright attacking
them, ends the effects. This is not actual mind control, simply the force of the
Charisma user’s personality. For their part, the target of Charisma should try
to interpret the user’s actions and words in the most favorable way possible,
avoid harming them in any way, and generally treat them well. After all, what
wouldn’t you do for your best friend?
Chase (MP-5)
     This Skill counters Escape and Rescue. You won’t get away that easily! This
Skill allows you to declare “Chase, Escape/Rescue Negated!” to block a single
target’s use of the Escape or Rescue Skill once for 5 Mind Points. When this
Skill is used successfully, neither you nor the  eeing character move anywhere
and the scene continues. It is obvious that the  eeing survivor tried to run,
but had its path of escape denied by the user of Chase. Use of this Skill
prevents further attempts to use Escape or Rescue by the same target for one
minute.
168

 Cheat (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Check Your Sleeves. The slide of a hand can
mean the difference between winning and losing. In order to use this Skill,
spend 5 Mind Points to automatically win a single die roll or hand of cards.
Simply announce “Cheat” and you are considered the winner of the round. As far
as onlookers are aware, of course, you’ve done nothing wrong. In the event that
multiple people wish to use the Cheat Skill, conduct a brief round of betting,
with each person bidding additional Mind Points. (This additional bidding is
considered out of game.) The person who bids the most wins the game, though all
Mind Points are considered spent. When bidding in a cheat war, you may only
raise and never match an opponent’s bid.
Check Quality (MP-1)
    It can pay to be observant. This Skill allows you to know exactly how much
damage a weapon can do inherently, how much damage armor can take, as well as
the Crafts Level of an item. Most of the time, this information will be on the
Item Card. In order to use this Skill, you need to have line of sight to an
object, and roleplay examining the item for at least 1 minute.  Then, spend 1
Mind Point and declare “Check Quality.” By this same token, those that do not
use Check Quality have no idea what a weapon can do, or what bene ts armor can
give. Check Quality may be used at check in to see the current exchange rates
for currencies.  While this exchange rate (based on the population of a branch’s
town combined with the number of non-combat focused professions at the game) is
the actual value of the currencies in play, this does not prevent characters
from valuing them at whatever they feel like.  Often time local currencies are
worth more where those currencies are used.
Check Status (MP-1)
     This Skill can counter Feign Death (range and duration requirements still
apply). Doctor, what’s wrong with me? In order to use this Skill, you have to
examine your patient for at least 1 minute and expend 1 Mind Point. During this
time, you must roleplay checking your patient’s condition, such as taking their
pulse, checking their eyes and talking with them. Simply watching them for one
minute isn’t enough for this Skill to work. After one minute of roleplay, you
may then say “Check Status” and ask your patient questions about the following
conditions: how many Health Points they possess and what their maximum is;
whether they are under the effects of any drugs or poisons; if they are injured,
and if so what injuries and their effects; if they are diseased, and if so
what it is and its effects; and whether the target is under the effects of a
derangement. This Skill also identi es whether a derangement is temporary or
permanent, as well as its nature and effects. This Skill does not cure anything,
but does identify conditions so that they may be treated.  Without unique
equipment allowing otherwise, Check Status may not be used more than an arm’s
length away from its target.
Check Value (MP-1)
     When you’re buying something, you probably want to know what it’s worth. In
order to use this Skill, spend 1 Mind Point to appraise an item’s true monetary
value as listed on the Item Card. This Skill immediately reveals counterfeit
items and currency. This ability also allows the user to check in at Logistics
for the current market prices and exchange rates for major currencies at
their local game. Items without a listed value simply  uctuate too much to be
accurately appraised.

169
 Check Your Sleeves (MP-1)
    This Skill counters Cheat. Sometimes, you need to have a good eye to spot
a true cheater. By spending 1 Mind Point, you can keep someone from cheating.
Note that this does not actually catch a cheater in the act; instead, it implies
such vigilance that the cheater is unable to sneak marked cards or loaded dice
into the game in the  rst place.
Choking Blow (MP-5)
    Silence can be golden— and deadly. This Skill allows you to make a silencing
strike from a single Small melee weapon, Thrown weapon, or brawling strike to
either the front or back torso. With a successful strike and the expenditure
of 5 Mind Points, you may call ‘Choking Blow, cannot speak, two minutes’. This
keeps your target from vocalizing any in game statements or noises for two full
minutes since the wound cripples a vital portion of the speech process. This
skill also prevents use of any skills requiring speech: Beg for Life, Challenge,
Charisma, Pray for Justice, Faith Healing, Call the All Mighty, etc. This skill
cannot by countered by Parry.
Chop (MP-1)
    Even broken items can still be used as Scrap. By spending 1 Mind Point you
can trade in a broken item for 1 Basic Scrap. This Skill may also be used on
fallen NPC weapons or shield (not armor) to produce 1 Basic Scrap. Note that
in order to receive the Basic Scrap, you have to actively roleplay taking the
weapon and breaking it apart with both hands for 10 seconds. You may not just
point at an item and say “Chop” while running past.  If you do not roleplay
breaking down an item for Scrap for 10 seconds, you will not be provided the
Scrap from the use of Chop, and the Mind Points will be considered expended.
When an NPC falls, their equipment (regardless of quality) will be considered
in a broken state.  It is suggested that players Check Quality of the equipment
they are about to Chop before they Chop it.  Aside from NPC weapons, you may not
Chop items that do not have an Item Card. This skill cannot be used to actively
break working items - that is the domain of skills such as Break Weapon and
Break Shield. Instead, it represents taking an already broken item and salvaging
some usable metal from it.
Concentrated Fire (MP-1)
     This skill is countered by Avoid or Bounce. This Skill costs 1 Mind Point
per use and allows a ranged shot to be counted as striking a speci c part of a
target, regardless of where the target is actually struck by the attack. Note
that the packet or dart must still hit the target; actual misses do not count,
though the Mind Point is still spent. Valid uses of this Skill include called
shots on limbs, weapons, shields, sections of the torso, as well as extremities
such as hands or feet. Simply call “Concentrated Fire X” where X is the targeted
area. While this Skill does not cause any particular crippling or mechanically
signi cant effect itself, it can be and often is linked with other Skills to
ensure that those Skills affect their intended target. For example, an attack
could go something like this: “Concentrated Fire Shield! Destroy Shield!” A
packet thrown and hits that target in the leg. Thanks to this Concentrated Fire,
the shield is still destroyed, as in-game the shot was considered to strike the
shield.
170

 Cover of Night (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Alert. Once the sun has completely set, and once
you’re out of bright, arti cial light, you may travel in the dark completely
unseen with the invisible symbol up. The “invisible symbol” is represented by
having your arm up over the lower half of your face (think of holding a cloak
in front of your face). By spending 5 Mind Points, no arti cial light short of
 ood lights or interior building lights will cause you to be seen. Walking or
running do not break Cover of Night, but speaking, picking up objects, entering
lit buildings or areas of bright lights, lowering the invisible symbol or using
any other Skills causes Cover of Night to end immediately. Interacting with the
environment (opening doors, picking up items, talking, using Skills, etc) ends
this skill.  This Skill requires unrestricted movement to use, so this Skill may
not be used if under the effects of Nail or other effects which hinder movement
(Mangled Legs, Binds on legs, etc.).
Crop Tending (MP-Variable)
     A person with this Skill has access to valuable plants, either growing in
a  eld or hidden in places around town, and can harvest them over the duration
of a weekend. By spending the appropriate Mind Points, you can gather up the
following:
5 Mind Points = 1 Basic Herb
10 Mind Points = 1 Uncommon Herb
15 Mind Points = 1 Rare Herb
20 Mind Points = 1 locally and/or seasonally available Named Herb
    Please note that not all Herbs are available in all regions or during all
seasons, and not all Herbs are able to be farmed. Using this skill requires 20
minutes of harvesting roleplay and an additional 10 minutes of role-play for
every Herb gathered beyond the  rst. The roleplay time requirement for Crop
Tending requires you mark your starting and  nishing times on the back of your
character sheet when you record the Mind Point expenditure (which happens before
starting to roleplay).
                                            The roleplay requirement reaches
                                        a cap of a maximum of 90 minutes of
                                        roleplay for a single usage of the
                                        Crop Tending Skill, regardless of how
                                        many additional Herbs are gathered
                                        on the single use of Crop Tending.
                                        After marking the use of the Skill,
                                        spending the Mind Points, and doing the
                                        required roleplaying, the player goes
                                        to Logistics where they will have their
                                        sheet checked and appropriate Item Cards
                                        given. Roleplay for Crop Tending should
                                        include activities such as checking
                                        for ripe berries, watering, weeding,
                                        and harvesting a farm-appropriate area
                                        (scratching at dirt in a parking lot
                                        doesn’t cut it).

171
     Any equipment that is used during farming, unless speci cally otherwise
stated by the item, only effects ONE Herb during a use of Crop Tending. Unless
otherwise stated speci cally on the equipment, only one piece of equipment
may be used during the process of farming. If a player wishes to use an item
over and over to have the effect on all Herbs, then each Herb must be farmed
(and collected from Logistics) individually. This will mean that each Herb
will require 20 minutes of roleplay instead of the 20 minutes of role-play and
additional 10 minutes of roleplay per Herb up to the cap of 90 minutes.
Examples:
1) A player spends 80 Mind Points and spends 90 minutes to collect 16 basic Herb. 2) A player spends 80 mind and 50 minutes to collect 4 named Herbs.
3) A player spends 5 mind and 20 minutes to collect 1 basic Herb.
4) A player uses a tool which allows harvesting non-in season Named Herbs. The player spends 40 Mind Points and 40 minutes to get an out-of-season named Herb and two uncommon Herb.
5) A player uses a tool which allows harvesting non-in season Named Herbs. The player spends 20 Mind Points and 20 minutes to get an out-of-season Named Herb. The player gets their card, then returns to the  eld to spend an additional 20 Mind Points and 20 minutes to get a second out-of-season named Herb.
Cure Toxins (MP-5)
     In these times, toxins of the blood are often more deadly than bullets,
claws, and blades combined, but fortunately a skilled practitioner can use
simple processes to purge these toxins. If you have this Skill, your character
knows how to pierce lesions, administer remedies and apply leeches in order to
remove most poisons and toxins. The process takes 10 minutes, and is typically
quite painful; by spending 5 Mind Points, roleplaying treatment and causing 1
damage to your patient, you can drain the toxins from your patient. Toxins are
de ned as ongoing Poison or Toxic effects. Some plot speci c Poisons or Toxic
effects may need additional time, Mind Points, use of other Skills or possession
of certain materials; these details will be noted on the victim’s card or
provided by staff.
Deep Pockets (MP-NIL)
     This Skill represents access to steady suppliers of Herb. At Check In, you
may purchase Herb at the following rates. Up to 30 Local Currency can be spent
this way.
1 Rare Herb for 4 Local Currency
1 Uncommon Herb for 2 Local Currency 2 Basic Herb for 1 Local Currency
    Named and Seasonal Herbs may be available at their own rates based on local
game plots, items, and world events. When checking in, this Skill is always used
last (i.e. after Trade Ties). This Skill may only be used by a character at
their home game.
Destroy Armor (MP-10)
     This Skill is countered by Avoid or Bounce. You are skilled at putting
shots in places that make armor worthless. With a single ranged attack, you
can declare “Destroy Armor!” and render a target’s armor useless until it is
repaired. This attack costs 10 Mind Points per attack, in icts zero damage, and
must strike the armor itself to work.
172

 Destroy Shield (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Avoid or Bounce. A shield doesn’t offer any
protection if you take it out directly. With a single ranged attack that strikes
a shield, you can declare “Destroy Shield!” and render a target’s shield useless
until it is repaired. This attack costs 5 Mind Points per packet or dart,
in icts zero damage, and must strike the shield itself to work.
Destroy Weapon (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Avoid or Bounce. Enemies become a lot less
threatening when they don’t have a way to hurt you. With a single ranged
attack that strikes anywhere in the center torso or weapon wielding arm, you
can declare “Destroy Weapon!” and render a target’s melee weapon, bolt action
weapon, thrown weapon set, brawling weapon, or bow useless until it is repaired.
This attack costs 5 Mind Points per packet or dart, in icts zero damage, and
must strike the weapon or the torso of your target to work.  Unlike break
weapon, Destroy Weapon is able to render brawling weapons unusable.
Disarming Blow (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Parry, unless the strike is made from behind.
Sometimes, all you need to do to win a  ght is get a person’s weapon away from
them. By spending 5 Mind Points, declaring “Disarming Blow!” and landing a
melee strike against the offending weapon, you can cause your opponent to drop
a single weapon for a full 5 second count. Weapons must be dropped at least
three steps away. This strike in icts no damage. Two handed weapons are not
dropped, but instead are disarmed from one of the two hands and un-wieldable for
5 seconds. If disarming shot is used when a two handed weapon is carried in one
hand, the weapon is disarmed. Disarming blow may be used against melee weapons,
bows, and bolt action weapons but may not be used against thrown weapons,
javelins, or brawling augmentation weapons (like Knucks).  When disarming a
ranged weapon, the arm must be targeted and not the Physical Representation.
Disarming Shot (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Avoid or Bounce. By spending 5 Mind Points,
declaring “Disarming Shot!” and striking the offending weapon or the forearm
wielding it with a ranged attack -  rearm, bow, or thrown weapon - you can cause
an opponent to drop a single weapon for a full 5 second count. Weapons must
be dropped at least three paces away. This strike does no damage. Two handed
weapons are not dropped, but instead are disarmed from one of the two hands and
un-wieldable for 5 seconds. If Disarming Shot is used when a two handed weapon
is carried in one hand, the weapon is disarmed.
Disguise (MP-5)
     This Skill counters Analyze Creature and can be countered by Tie Binds.
Sometimes, it’s better to not be yourself. By spending 5 Mind Points, adopting
a full costume change and using a mask and/or extensive makeup, you can take
on the appearance and physical mannerisms of someone else for 30 minutes.
There must no question that the character using Disguise is not recognizable
as their usual self. This Skill does not allow you to present yourself as a
speci c person, such as another player character or well-known NPC; however,
you may present yourself as another persona you have created. It also makes you
unidenti able as the person that you are until the Disguise ends. Disguises may
be ended at any time by making another costume and makeup change, but may not
be removed unwillingly unless the Disguise user has had been restricted by the
Skill Tie Binds. Use of the Disguise Skill is the only means to hide aspects

173
 of your particular Strain from the public. (Retrogrades without Disguise that
attempt to change how they look must still have rotted features, for example.)
Analyze Creature does not pierce Disguise; however, it will reveal a costume
changed individual who is not using the Disguise Skill.
Disguise Contents (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Analyze Compound. This Skill allows a Cook
to slip a compound into a prepared Meal. During the use of Prepare Meal, the
Cook may spend an additional 5 Mind Points to add any 1 consumable Brew to a
Meal that effects all servings. When the required components are traded in at
Logistics for the new Meal card, the Meal card may be attached face down or in a
sealed envelope so it cannot be read, and simply labeled as a Meal on the back.
When the meal is consumed, the card is revealed and its effects are immediately
taken. This new Meal uses the shortest of the expiration dates between the Brew
and the Meal. Unless otherwise stated, a Meal may only have 1 Brew disguised
into it.
Double-Tap (MP-1)
     When you’re dealing with the living dead, your enemies don’t always stay
down. By expending 1 Mind Point you can announce “Double-Tap!” when declaring
a Killing Blow. Double-Tap not only is a successful Killing Blow, but if a
creature has an ability or effect that would cause it to get up again after a
Killing Blow, that capability is negated (this effect is speci cally used on
zombi ed creatures). In the event that the damage called after a Double-Tap
is not suf cient to Killing Blow a creature, the cost of Double-Tap is still
expended. Please note, do not attempt to Double-Tap every creature you come
across- this will be a rather large waste of your precious Mind Points.
Educated (MP-Nil/10)
     Not everyone has the bene t of a good education in the
apocalypse. Going beyond the most rudimentary mathematics
and comprehension of the written and spoken word, the
user of this Skill has been educated in the  ner arts.
Not only does the user of this Skill have the capacity
to understand complex documents, such as advanced
blueprints, obscure texts and convoluted wiring
diagrams, but an educated individual may also reduce
Building A Better Tomorrow, Transcribe, and Brewing
times by 10 minutes. In addition, Medical Genius time
drops to 2 minutes. A character with the Educated Skill
may also spend 10 Mind Points and 30 minutes once per
event roleplaying researching in an environment such as a
Library or a Lab (Item Card required for Library or Lab).
At the end of the roleplaying period, the player may ask
the storytelling staff three questions related to a Lore
Skill they possess or materials related to an ongoing
plot. The degree of detail uncovered by research varies from
case to case, as some information is dif cult or impossible
to  nd; however, sometimes key information can be uncovered
this way. When reporting this Skill use to Logistics, the
Library or Lab card must be brought with the player using
the Skill.
174

 Entertain (MP-1/5)
     There has to be something to break the tedium of killing zed— and
Entertaining accomplishes just that. This Skill indicates having ability with
a musical talent, dance, storytelling or other approved forms of performance
entertainment. Players with this Skill should not be afraid of how talented they
are out-of-character, but they are expected to actually perform - i.e., you
cannot simply narrate “And then my character sings”, you must really sing - and
must do so at least once per event so that people always know who they are. This
reputation has its own advantages. At any location where a club, bar, or private
social event is going on that either restricts entrance or charges a cover, a
person using the Entertain skill may walk up to the front door and expend 1 Mind
Point. By expending this Mind Point, the person using the Entertain skill is
able to pass the doorway at no cost through their reputation as an Entertaining
person.
    A character with the Entertain Skill may also spend 5 Mind Points to do
a ‘private showing.’ A private showing requires a minimum of 30 minutes of
roleplay of presenting your art to a single target. Neither the person using
Entertain nor the recipient may use any other Skills or be in combat. At the
end of the 30 minutes of uninterrupted roleplay, the target of the Entertain
Skill regains 10 Mind Points. Interruption does not cause the Mind Points to
be lost, but the whole performance must begin again as the clock is reset.
Multiple targets may be affected at the same time with this Skill, increasing
the roleplay duration by 5 minutes and adding 5 Mind Points to the cost per
additional target (everyone must partake for 35 minutes and 10 Mind for 2
targets, 40 minutes and 15 Mind for 3 targets, etc.). Only one private showing
may be given per Twelves, with a minimum of 4 hours between showings; what’s
more, a target may only regain Mind Points from this Skill once per Twelves
regardless of the source.
Escape (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Chase. You cannot use it while under the effects
of Nail, a Mangled leg or Tie Binds. Standing and  ghting isn’t always the
brightest idea. This Skill allows you to  ee from combat in relative safety.
By expending 5 Mind Points and declaring “Escape!” you can take 20 paces away
from combat, during which time you cannot be targeted or pursued— unless your
opponent has Chase. You must  ee the combat, or at least seek safety in numbers;
this Skill may not be used to engage in combat (you cannot Escape into a  ght).
While using Escape, you can open unlocked doors; however, a locked door or
Barricade immediately stops the Escape.  Characters using the Escape Skill may
not be carrying additional people nor items that require the activation of the
Carry skill to move.  Iron Slaves using their Strain advantage may use Escape
with a Carry rate 2 object, however, can not use Escape while Carrying another
person.
Escape Bonds (MP-5)
     This Skill counters Tie Binds. Knowing exactly how to wriggle free from
ropes and chains can be useful in a tight spot. This Skill allows you to spend 5
Mind Points to instantly remove restraints that have been placed upon you using
the Tie Binds Skill. Items such as handcuffs, which have a Crafts Level to them,
are more dif cult to escape; each Crafts Level of the binding item increases the
Mind Point expenditure by 5 points. The time required remains the same.

175
 Fade in a Crowd (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Alert. Shadows aren’t the only place where
people can hide; all it takes is a few people around you if you know what
you’re doing. With this Skill, you can spend 5 Mind Points to blend into the
crowd and vanish with the invisible symbol up, so long as there are at least 6
people in a four foot radius. As long as you remain within arm’s reach of three
other people, you can travel unseen. Any actions other than walking cause this
Skill to end. Note that the Undead Hordes do not count as a “crowd” and using
this Skill within a horde is likely to result in some unpleasant circumstances
(mainly, a zed trying to gnaw on your leg). This Skill requires unrestricted
movement to use, so you can’t use it if you’re under the effects of Nail
or other effects that hinder movement (Mangled legs, Binds on legs, etc.).
Interacting with the environment (opening doors, picking up items, talking,
using Skills, etc.) ends this Skill.
Faith Healing (MP-Variable)
    By spending 5 minutes praying, the user of this Skill may place both of
their hands on a wounded target and focus their divine faith into binding a
target’s wounds. After 5 minutes of verbal prayer, a Faith Healer may heal 2
Health Points for every 1 Mind Point spent. While using this skill the user may
not move from where they are standing. If the user of this skill is struck,
moves, or uses any other skills this will cause Faith Healing to fail. Faith
Healing will not purge any poison/disease effects currently active on the
target, nor will it remove derangements. However, with the expenditure of
10 Mind Points and 5 additional minutes of prayer in addition to standard
Faith Healing costs and requirements, you may heal a single Mangled limb.
Only one limb may be mended per use of Faith Healing.
Fearful Glare (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Refuse. Living in these
times causes many people to
become mean, but even
so, some people are lot
scarier than others.
You’re one of the
worst. With a single
look, you can express
to an opponent without
words what it is that
you will do to them if
they attack you. By
spending 5 Mind Points,
calling “FEAR, cannot
attack me, 5 minutes!”
and glaring at a target while
pointing at them, that
target becomes frightened
of you and unable to
initiate attacks against you
for 5 minutes. These effects
are broken if you attack the
target, or if later effects
force that target to attack.
176

 Feign Death (MP-1)
     This Skill is countered by Check Status. By spending 1 Mind Point
immediately after taking a wound, you may fall to the ground and feign your own
death. Self-in icted wounds do not count for the purposes of activating this
Skill, though allies can hurt you to trigger it. This Skill allows you to state
that you are dead to anyone who investigates your body without using the Check
Status Skill; all non-zombi ed opponents must stop attacking you and may not
declare Killing Blows. (After all, you’re already dead!) Zombies are immune to
this skill, as they will continue clawing and biting a target whether or not it
is living or dead. You may begin to move or use Skills at any time, but doing so
immediately causes your façade to drop.
First Aide (MP-NIL)
    The First Aide Skill is not used to heal wounds; however, it is capable of
keeping critically injured individuals alive by preventing wounds from going
from bad to worse. By spending 2 minutes roleplaying stabilizing a target, a
person with the First Aide Skill may can halt the fallen player’s Bleed Out
death count and/or awaken an unconscious target. This will stabilize a target
until another wound is in icted, at which point the Bleeding Out begins again.
This skill does not help a target that has received a Killing Blow. A stabilized
person may walk slowly and speak painfully, but take no other actions other than
Skills that could be used during Bleed Out. In addition, First Aide does not
halt the Bleed Out count during the 2 minutes it takes to stabilize a target.
For example, if a person is 4 minutes into their Bleed Out period, they will die
before First Aide can be properly administered.
Fishing (MP-5)
     The act of taking food from the sea is much more dif cult in this day
and age due to the fact that so many of the waterways and watersheds are
irreversibly irradiated. Fishing can still be useful, however, if someone has
been trained in the effects of radiation as well as the means of catching
untainted food. By spending 30 minutes ‘ shing’ by a natural waterway, the user
of this Skill may expend 5 Mind Points and return to Logistics to receive Named
Consumable: Untainted Fish x1. A Fishing pole of some kind is also required for
this Skill. Note that Fishing does not prevent its user from activating other
Skills or partaking in other activities, as long as the  shing area is set
and always within ten paces. Leaving that area cancels the Skill, Mind Points
unspent.
Fix Limb (MP-5)
    By expending 5 Mind Points, and spending 10 minutes roleplaying working
on a Mangled Limb, the Mangled effect can be removed. After the Mind Point
expenditure and time is spent  xing the Mangled limb, the limb must be allowed
to rest for 10 minutes before it will again become usable. You may not use this
Skill on yourself if both of your arms have been Mangled.
Florentine (MP-Nil)
    This Skill does not cost anything to use, and allows a user to  ght with two
melee weapons at once. These weapons must be of Standard size or smaller, and
the appropriate melee weapon skills must still be purchased. A single purchase
of a melee Skill, when combined with the Florentine skill, allows for usage of a
melee weapon of that size in both hands at once. Florentine is not required to
wield two pistols or a pistol in one hand and a melee weapon in the other, nor
to have a brawler in one hand and a melee weapon in the other.

177
     Once an individual enters melee range, as a safety reminder, ranged  rearms
must be dropped to your side and packets used.  This makes most practical uses
of using bolt action and melee at the same time unlikely to occur. When striking
with melee weapons when using the Florentine skill, each blade may strike 3
times before Flurry rules are engaged. With the Florentine Skill it requires
a total of 6 strikes (3 with each hand) to require a pause before reengaging.
Unless using the Florentine skill to combine the use of two melee weapons (not
brawlers), individuals are restricted to 3 strikes before the Flurry rule reset.
Force Barricade (MP-Variable)
     This Skill counters Barricade. At times, survival involves breaking through
defenses that others have put down. An experienced survivalist knows that the
most important items are the most heavily defended. For every 1 Mind Point
spent, the user may destroy one Crafts Level of a Barricade outright by striking
it and declaring “Force Barricade!” Doors without Barricades or enhancements are
considered at Crafts Level 0 for breaking.
Forging the Future (MP-Variable)
     This Skill allows a character to take Scrap and build large projects
called Augments, such as building forti cations, work areas, or structural
improvements. By spending 10 Mind Points and 1 hour (30 Minutes at a Forge, 30
Minutes at the target structure) roleplaying the fabrication, the crafter may
take the required Scrap cards to Logistics to be traded in for a new Item Card.
All items start at Crafts Level 1 unless otherwise speci ed. While roleplaying
making the item, you must make a signi cant amount of noise (there is no “quiet”
crafting!). Crafting requires 2 hands, and can be interrupted if the crafter
leaves the area within 5 feet of the Forge or target structure (except for the
immediate transit between the two locations), utilizes any additional Skills,
or falls into Bleed Out. If the process is interrupted, all Mind Points spent
and materials invested are lost. Some abilities or items may reduce the time
requirement for Forging the Future. The minimum time for Forging the Future,
without the assistance of an Able Helper, is 5 minutes at the forge, 5 minutes
at the target structure.
    Augments can be improved via Forging the Future as outlined on the blueprint
                          provided. Basic items or Forging the Future items
178

without improvement instructions cannot have
    their Crafts Level improved. During the
      process of production a player may only
      use one item to manipulate crafting times
       or production results unless the used
          items speci cally state that they
          stack with other items.
              The following table lists augment
           plans automatically known by everyone
           with this Skill. Note that other
           plans may be discovered in game with
           their own Mind, Skill, and Resource
           requirements to produce or improve.
           Non-standard plans must be present
           while roleplaying crafting or
           improving, and presented to Logistics
           when getting the new item issued.
 Name of Item
Stats
Lifespan
3 Months, including built in.
3 Months, including built in.
3 Months, including built in.
Required
Resources
Named Scrap: Lead Bar x2
Rare Scrap x2 Uncommon Scrap x4
Named Scrap: Old World Religious Object x2
Rare Scrap x2 Uncommon Scrap x4
Named Scrap: Pointy Tools
Brew: Glue x3
Rare Scrap x2 Uncommon Scrap x2 Basic Scrap x2
Named Herb: St. John’s Wort x2 Gizmo: High-Quality Bandages x1
Rare Scrap x3
Uncommon Scrap x10 Rare Scrap x 6
Made To Last
Beati c
Building
Bolt Holes
Field Medic
Tent
Low Quality
Work Bench
Universal
Crafted Items
Building Augment
Uses of ‘Barricade’ require only 1/4 the necessary Time & Mind within the applied building.
Building Augment
Uses of ‘Faith Healing’ within applied building heal 3 Health (instead of 2) for every Mind Point spent.
Building Augment
Designated occupants of the applied building may call the ‘Escape’ Skill once per Twelves while within, and immediately move to 5 steps away from any wall regardless of barriers. Maximum 8 named occupants.
Structure
Carry Rate: 50
10ftx10ft-ish, must be outside all other buildings.
Create ‘First Aide Tent’ structure that drops the required Time of the First Aide Skill to 10 Seconds while within it, and lowers time for Fix Limb & Cure Toxins to 5 Minutes.
Unique Item
Carry Rate:10
5ftx3ft
Crafts 1- Cannot be improved 1 User At a Time
See Universal Crafted Items
List
one
one
one
Frightening Force (MP-10)
    This Skill can be countered by Parry if it’s delivered from the front. This
strike is terrifying to all that witness it. By expending 10 Mind Points you may
declare 30 damage for a single melee swing. If this  rst strike is successful,
you may immediately turn and look at a second opponent and declare “FEAR, cannot
attack me, 5 minutes!” against them. This Fear effect is identical to the Skill
Fearful Glare. If the initial swing misses or is negated by defense Skills, the
Fear effect does not work either. Frightening Force requires that the striking
weapon be standard size or larger - it will not work with Small melee weapons or
brawling strikes.

Remainder Event.
Must supply own PhysRep.
6 months, including one built in. Must supply own PhysRep.
of
179
 Guild Member (MP-Nil)
    Even in a dead future there are still people who want to kill, and you
know people who can make it happen. This Skill re ects your contacts with
representatives of Murder Incorporated, a secretive organization that takes
money from clients and transfers it to others with blood on their hands. Use
of this Skill typically involves making contact with a member of Storytelling
staff, often at Logistics at Check In, though once you make it known that you
want to put a contract out (or take a job yourself), you never know who might
make contact, or when... Be advised that Murder Inc. honors its secrecy above
all other things, and will terminate anyone that tries to bring them to light.
In relation to Check In Skills and branch speci c Guild information, this Skill
may only be used by a character at their home game.
Gun A cionado (MP-5)
This Skill can be countered by Avoid or Bounce. Some people are really
good at making sure a bullet hits where it hurts. If you have this Skill, your character has trained long enough to become exceptionally deadly with  rearms. By spending 5 Mind Points, you can deal 15 points of damage with a single  rearms attack. This Skill cannot be stacked with other damage increasing Skills.
Head Shrink (MP-10/20)
     Now tell me what’s troubling you. By spending 10 Mind Points and 10
minutes of appropriate roleplay, you can remove a temporary derangement from
another person (not yourself, though). By spending 20 Mind Points and 30 minutes
of roleplay, you can remove a permanent derangement from another person.
Derangements may not be removed from an individual within the  rst two hours of
the derangement being received (the trauma is too fresh). However, the skill
fails if the derangement is gained from an Advanced Profession (for example:
the Multiple Personality derangement that occurs from Thought Bender, or the
Obsession: Revenge derangement that a Mountebank can acquire). At the discretion
of the storytelling staff, certain other severe, long-term mental illness
or damage also may not be curable - the minds of Raiders are too mutated and
warped from a lifetime of savagery and exposure to radiation to gain much from
treatment, for example. Appropriate roleplay can include working someone through
their issues with heartfelt conversation, a pep talk, formal psychotherapy,
entertainment to take their mind off of the horrors of the world, or even a
religious sermon or moralistic lesson.
Healthy Feast (MP-Variable)
     This Skill allows a character to produce Meals even more potent and
delicious. During the use of Prepare Meal the Cook may spend an additional 5
Mind Points additional effect added to a prepared Meal. These bene ts are added
to all servings of the Prepared Meal.
    During the process of production a player may only use one item to
manipulate crafting times or production results unless the used items
speci cally state that they stack with other items. Each of the following
effects can be added once. Note that a Generic Meal can never bene t from
Healthy Feast effects. Some Meal recipes require Healthy Feast to unlock their
full bene ts.
    Cure Onset Disease
    Soothe Derangements (2 Hour Duration)
    Heal +6 Body
    Cure Toxins
180

 Holy Rites (MP-Variable)
All priests wield the power of their faith, but those priests that dig
into the scriptures and rituals of their faith  nd a different sort of authority available to them. While not as instantaneous or as  ashy as Skills like Bless Weapon or Pray for Justice, these rituals possess long-term potency and can forge
a true spiritual community of the faithful. In fact, it’s only after a priest
has taken it upon herself to study the deeper teachings of her faith that she is granted the ability to formally induct new members of the faith. It’s important to note that all holy rites have a roleplay component as one of their requirements, which should be played to the hilt with props, prayers, music, chants, sermons, set dressing and other dramatic  ourishes whenever possible. Players who fail to make an honest effort to meet these requirements may receive a roleplay violation or have this Skill stripped from them.
Rite
Baptism
Bless Barricade
Confession
Effect
Formally induct a person
into a recognized in-game religion. They may now record this faith on their character card; certain rituals may offer new bene ts as well. Baptisms should be recorded at Logistics after the ritual is complete.
Forti es a barricade to better withstand the undead – zombies must count for twice as long each time they take down a level of the barricade, and cannot use Force Barricade against it. This ritual has no effect regarding living enemies.
The priest enters a deep spiritual conversation with the subject, removing all Fear and Terror effects. With more prolonged exploration of a target’s faith, the priest can even push off the effects of madness temporarily, easing one of the target’s Derangements for a while.
Allows a priest to transfer some of their own energy
to one of their faithful, restoring 1 Mind Point to the target for every 2 Mind Points the priest spends during the sermon. This may not take a target over their normal Mind Point maximum.
Duration
Permanent,
though a subject can leave voluntarily, or even potentially be excommunicated if they fail
to follow its teachings
4 hours or until the next Twelves, whichever is longer.
Instant for all Fear and Terror effects, 2 hours for temporary Derangements
and 1 hour for permanent ones.
Instant. A target may not receive this rite more than once per Twelves, and not more than twice per event total.
Requirements
1 Mind Point and 30 minutes of appropriate roleplay for the ritual. Multiple people may be baptized in one ritual, provided suf cient MP are spent for all of them
5 Mind Points and 1 minute of religious roleplay per level of the barricade; a “Blessed” sign with its effects must be prominently attached to the barricade as well.
1 Mind Points and 1 minute of religious roleplay with the target for Fear and Terror effects, during which time both priest and target cannot attack. Derangements require 10 minutes of roleplay and 5 Mind Points for temporary ones and 15 Mind Points for permanent ones.
10 minutes of dedicated religious roleplay between the priest and their target. The target must be a formally baptized member of the faith (ie, have it recorded on their card).
Spiritual Guidance

181
 Hunter’s Mark (MP-15/15)
This Skill is the stock and trade of any good Hunter. By expending 15 Mind Points and striking a target with a white packet, for the next 10 minutes the hunter with this Skill may use Chase, Alert, and Sniped Shot on the target for the cost
of 1 Mind Points per use (requires character to have these skills). In addition,
a character with this Skill may spend 30 minutes roleplaying hunting and stalking
of wild animals in the woods. At the end of the 30 minute period, a character with Hunter’s Mark may expend 15 Mind Points and then go to Logistics to receive a single Produce card - venison, dog meat, boar meat, squirrel, or rat meat - at random. Certain meats may also be available seasonally or due to special plot circumstances; this information will be available at Logistics as well.
Improved Armor/Shield (MP-Variable)
This Skill allows a character to Improve an existing Armor or Shield’s Crafts Level up to a maximum of Crafts Level 5. By spending 5 Mind Points, 1 Rare Scrap, and 30 Minutes roleplaying improving the item at a Workbench, the crafter may take the required Scrap card and target Item Card to Logistics to be have its Crafts Level increased by +1. Each time a suit of Armor is improved in this way, it provides an additional 5 Armor Points. Each time a Shield is improved in this way, its Bounce rating is improved by 3. While roleplaying improving the item, you must make a signi cant amount of noise (there is no “quiet” crafting!). Improving an item requires 2 hands, and can be interrupted if the crafter leaves the area within 5 feet of the Workbench, utilizes any combat Skills, or falls into Bleed Out. If the process is interrupted, all Mind Points spent and materials invested are lost. Some abilities or items may reduce the time requirement for Improving an item. The minimum time, without the assistance of an Able Helper, is 10 minutes. Note that a Starter Item may only be Improved twice, to a maximum Crafts Level of 3.
Improved Pistol/Bow/Thrown/Javelin (MP-Variable)
This Skill allows a character to Improve an existing Bow, thrown weapon set, javelin set, or Shooter’s Crafts Level up to a
maximum of Crafts Level 5. By spending 5 Mind
Points, 1 Rare Scrap, and 30 Minutes roleplaying
improving the item at a Workbench, the
crafter may take the required Scrap card
and target Item Card to Logistics to have its
Crafts Level increased by +1. Each an item
is improved in this way, the weapon deals
+1 damage. While roleplaying improving
the item, you must make a signi cant
amount of noise (there is no “quiet” crafting!).
Improving an item requires 2 hands, and can be
interrupted if the crafter leaves the area within
 ve feet of the Workbench, utilizes any combat
Skills, or falls into Bleed Out. If the process is interrupted, all Mind Points spent and materials invested are lost. Some abilities or items may reduce the time requirement for improving an item. The minimum time, without the assistance of an Able Helper, is 10 minutes. Note that
a Starter Item may only be improved twice, to a maximum Crafts Level of 3.
182

 Improved Weapon (MP-Variable)
This Skill allows a character to Improve an existing Brawler’s Knuckles or
Melee weapon’s Crafts Level up to a maximum of Crafts Level 5. By spending 5 Mind Points, 1 Rare Scrap, and 30 Minutes roleplaying improving the item at a Workbench, the crafter may take the required Scrap card and target Item Card to Logistics to be have its Crafts Level increased by +1. Each time a Brawler’s Knuckles or Melee weapon is improved in this way, the weapon deals +1 Damage. While roleplaying improving
the item, you must make a signi cant amount of noise (there is no “quiet” crafting!). Improving an item requires 2 hands, and can be interrupted if the crafter leaves the area within 5 feet of the Workbench, utilizes any combat skills, or falls into Bleed Out. If the process is interrupted, all Mind Points spent and materials invested are lost. Some abilities or items may reduce the time requirement for Improving an item. The minimum time, without the assistance of an Able Helper, is 10 minutes. Note that a Starter Item may only be improved twice, to a maximum Crafts Level of 3.
Income (MP-Nil)
Money doesn’t grow on trees, but a few extra connections can certainly help. This Skill re ects that a person has a viable job between events; during Check In, they receive a certain amount of local currency as a re ection of their monthly income. This Skill may be purchased multiple times, up to a maximum of  ve, allowing for cumulative  nancial growth. For example, Income 1 provides 1 local currency, Income 2 provides 3 local currency, etc. This employment requires in-game roleplay where you advertise what it is that you do. Some acceptable employment examples include: scrounger, bartender, bouncer, guard, store operator, politician, gambler, pit  ghter, caravan operator, farmer,  sher, entertainer, medic. (Note: While theoretically possible, openly advertising as an assassin, slaver, thief or other unsavory profession is a good way to meet local law enforcement, and it’s not likely to be for a friendly chat.) To learn this skill, you must either train yourself as
a Strain Skill, or receive instruction from someone with equal or greater level of the Income Skill. This Skill may only be used by a character at their home game.
Instruct (MP-1)
You can save some time by teaching a classroom rather than an individual.
This Skill costs 1 Mind Point, and allows you to teach a Skill that you have to an entire group of people at once. This Skill requires 5 minutes of roleplay for every Experience Point the slowest (highest cost) student must expend to gain this Skill. For example, if you’re teaching a group of  ve people how to Parry, and one of them needs to spend 6 Experience Points to learn it, it will take 30 minutes— even if some of the other students can purchase the Skill for 3 Experience Points. You may only teach Skills that a person can purchase from either their Profession list or their Strain list, and these Skills are available to use at the next 12s. Instruct may not be used to teach Professions, only Skills.
Interfere (MP-Nil)
This Skill allows its user to declare “Interfere!” and immediately take the
damage or Skill effect another person would have just taken, provided the user is within arm’s length of the target. Interfere transfers all damage and other negative effects to the person using this Skill. However, once transferred by Interfere no items, Brews, armors, defensive Skills, damage reduction, psionic powers, or other status altering Skills can reduce or prevent damage and effects suffered, even if they normally apply automatically. To use Interfere, the user of the Skill must be able to take the effects of the effect and damage being called. As an example, if you want to use Interfere to take the effects of a ‘Break Shield’, then the user of Interfere must have a shield that can be broken. The same applies for all other forms of interfered skills (must have a working limb to interfere a mangle limb, must have working armor to interfere destroy armor, etc.). This skill has no Mind Point cost.

183
 Interrogate (MP-5)
This Skill is countered by Lie. Every good investigator knows how to sniff out some information— especially from a guilty party. After roleplaying questioning a target in an intimidating way for at least 5 minutes, you can spend 5 Mind Points to declare “Interrogate” and force a subject to give an answer to a direct question. The question does not need to be as simple as a yes/no question, but compound questions cannot be used with Interrogate. Attempting to do so will immediately causes Interrogate to fail. The subject must give a truthful and complete answer, unless the Lie Skill is used. Once a question has been asked of a subject with the Skill ‘Interrogate’, that question may not be asked of that subject again with this Skill by anyone for the rest of the event. People using the Interrogate Skill are encouraged to ask many questions that are related to a situation instead of just asking one ‘yes or no’ question during a scene, but the subject is only compelled to answer the Interrogate ones.
Interrogate may be used multiple times in a particular scene, to represent particularly long or demanding questioning; each additional question costs 5 Mind Points and another minute of interrogation roleplay, and cannot cover the same ground as a previous question.
Iron Fists (MP-Nil)
If you punch things for long enough, you’re bound to build up some calluses. This Skill allows those wielding  st boffers with the Brawling Skill to not take damage when they block with them. To represent this Skill, a two inch band of red tape must surround the ‘wrist area’ of the brawling boffers. This Skill represents the knowledge of how to de ect blows with your hands and arms so that strikes do not land at full strength, instead of just letting your arms take the damage. The Skill Iron Fists does not prevent Mangle Limb from rendering arms useless if the strike lands on a character’s brawling boffers.
Knock Down (MP-5)
This Skill is countered by Balance or Avoid. This Skill allows you to step up with their shield and declare Knock Down against a target in melee range. Note that you must be holding a shield in order to use this Skill, as this simulates a ‘shield bash’. This is not considered a melee augmenting Skill, since it does not require
a melee weapon to use. By spending 5 Mind Points and calling “Knock Down!” you can knock an opponent off of their feet. A person who has been affected by Knock Down can still defend themselves (block strikes, not attack); however, they must drop
to the ground and take no actions other than defending themselves for 10 seconds. Note that you should not actually strike an opponent with your shield; this Skill represents that action instead. During the duration of Knock Down a character cannot use Skills.
Knockout (MP-5)
This Skill is countered by Avoid and First Aide. By spending 5 Mind Points, this Skill allows its user to make a single melee or brawling strike at a target’s back torso and declare “Knockout, out cold 5 minutes or until wounded!” to render them unconscious. If successful, most living creatures are rendered prone and unconscious for 5 minutes, or until they are wounded or First Aide is used to wake them up. Note that this Skill is ineffective against the undead.
184

 Lie (MP-5)
This Skill counters Interrogate and certain psionic Skills. When you’re in a bind, it can be handy to be able to tell a lie. By
spending 5 Mind Points, you can tell one undetectable lie. This lie is to be considered truth under all means of detection; only if
direct evidence is provided will the false nature of the statement be uncovered. This Skill can only be declared if another Skill is used to try to force an answer to a
question or to determine whether or not a statement is true, such as Interrogate, certain psionic powers or particular
Advanced Profession skills. It cannot be used to force people to believe facts independent of truth detection; however, when
used it convinces the interrogator that the subject is telling the truth. This Skill may be used in Bleed Out.
In order to use this Skill, the user must clearly add the word “Lie” at the end of the answer that was compelled
with another Skill. This declaration is purely to note the Mind Points are spent and to avoid possible confusion later. It is
not an in-game announcement in any way, and acting on it is considered cheating and will be punished accordingly.
It should be noted that while this Skill is quite effective if the liar is the only person who can be questioned about a matter,
if other direct evidence exists then their crimes might still be found out. For example, if a character uses Lie to deny committing a murder, but six eyewitnesses saw them do it, unless the criminal
can discredit those witnesses or  nd some other way to throw off the investigation, all they’re going to do is reveal the fact that they’re
an excellent liar as well as a killer.
Literacy (MP-Nil)
    Literacy costs no Mind Points to use. This Skill allows its owner the
rudimentary yet sadly all too uncommon ability to read and write, as well as
perform simple math and written calculations. In addition to those bene ts, this
Skill is vital in duplication of most basic listed blueprints and documents.
Lore (Type) (MP-Nil)
Lore is a Skill that shows your character has an understanding of a particular subject. For example, Lore: Grave Mind means that your character understands far more about the Grave Mind than the average character. In order to use this Skill, simply state the particular Lore that your character has (for example: Lore, Grave Mind) during an appropriate situation. In the case of Lore: Grave Mind, this can be examining a new creature that may have been spawned directly from the Grave Mind, or investigating
some strange phenomenon occurring with the Grave Mind. That said, this Skill doesn’t mean that your character knows everything about a particular subject. Instead, it shows that your character has a basic understanding of it, and knows enough to be able to research particular topics more extensively. Lore is largely used in conjunction with the Educated Skill in order to  nd out more about certain topics. Simply stating the Lore without research will only give you the most rudimentary of information. For more information on Lores, take a look at the Lore section of the rulebook.

185
 Mangle Limb (MP-5)
This Skill can be countered by Parry if the strike is made from the front. By spending 5 Mind Points and making a successful melee strike, you can declare “Mangle Limb!” This causes the limb you struck to become mangled and useless. Only the limb actually struck may be affected - if you want to Mangle the right arm, for example, you must hit the right arm. A Mangled arm may still hold an item in its hand (loosely), but cannot in any way be used to deliver Skills, manipulate items or wield weapons. A person may still stand with one Mangled leg, but it prevents any movement faster than a very slow, painful walk - this should be portrayed as dragging the injured leg or otherwise obviously favoring it. Two Mangled legs prevents standing and any movement other than crawling in a prone position.
Master Craftsman (MP-Variable)
With this Skill a character may take any weapon, brawling augment, shield, or armor that has already been Improved to Crafts Level 5 and further improve it to a maximum of Crafts Level 10. By spending 10 Mind Points, 1 Rare Scrap, any 1 Named Scrap, and 30 minutes roleplaying re ning the target item at a Workbench you may take the necessary Scrap Cards and target Item Card to Logistics to increase the Crafts Level of an item by +1 above and beyond the normal limitation of the Improve Skills. Note that these improved Crafts Levels do not give any further damage or armor point bonuses,
but do continue to increase Bounce Rating for shields. While roleplaying improving the item, you must make a signi cant amount of noise (there is no “quiet” crafting!). Master Crafting requires 2 hands, and can be interrupted if the crafter leaves the area within 5 feet of the workbench, utilizes any combat Skills, or falls into Bleed Out. If the process is interrupted, all Mind Points spent and materials invested are lost. Some abilities or items may reduce the time requirement for Master Craftsman. The minimum time, without the assistance of an Able Helper, is 10 minutes.
During the process of production a player may only use one item to manipulate crafting times or production results unless the used items speci cally state that they stack with other items.
At Crafts Level 6 and above, the item is considered Master Crafted. Master Crafted items that are the target of a Break, Destroy, Melt, or similar effect are not rendered broken, but instead permanently lose 1 Crafts Level, and may continue being used. If
a Master Crafted item falls from Crafts Level 6 to Crafts Level 5 again, it loses all bene ts from being Master Crafted.
In addition to the Master Crafted bene ts above, a Master Crafted item that has been Improved all the way to Crafts Level 10 will gain a bene t depending on the Named Scrap invested during its  nal improvement. See the table below for details. Once improved in this way, the Master Crafted item will retain this bene t so long as it remains Master Crafted (Crafts Level 6 or above). An item may only receive one Master Crafted Named Scrap bene t at a time. Once lost, the item must be Master Crafted fully to Crafts Level 10 again for a new bene t to be applied. The Physical Representation of the item should be cosmetically altered to re ect the nature of the bene t gained and the named Scrap invested.
186

 Named Scrap
Bronze
Chrome
Copper
Crazy
Future
Metal
Green Rod
Large Bloodstone (Requires Card)
Large Die-Mond (Requires Card)
Lead Silver
Steel
Melee/Thrown/ Bow/Knucks
No Effect
No Effect
No Effect
Ignore 1 Use of Break/Destroy Per Event
Rad Damage Modi er Added
No Effect
Repair Time Same As Per Crafts 3 Item. Effect not lost when broken below 5, will
be lost when improved again.
Poison modi er Added
Add 20 to Value
+1 damage (Does not increase with further improvements)
Shooter
No Effect
+1 damage (Does not Increase with further improvements)
No Effect
Ignore 1 Use of Break/Destroy Per Event
No Effect
Repair Time Same As Per Crafts 3 Item. Effect not lost when broken below 5, will
be lost when improved again.
No Effect
No Effect
Add 20 to Value
No Effect
Shield
Crafts Level Cap Increased by
2 (useful for Bounce)
No Effect
No Effect
Ignore 1 Use of Break/Destroy Per Event
No Effect No Effect
Repair Time Same As Per Crafts 3 Item. Effect not lost when broken below 5, will
be lost when improved again.
No Effect
Add 20 to Value
No Effect
Armor
No Effect
No Effect
Repair Time Same As Per Crafts 3 Item. Effect not lost when broken below 5, will
be lost when improved again.
No Effect
No Effect No Effect
No Effect
Ignore Rad Mod on Direct Damage
Charisma Time Reduced to 1 Minute
No Effect
Medical Assistance (MP-1 Per 3)
     With this Skill, your character has gained knowledge of not only the
workings of the human body but also how to quickly revitalize a person and
close their wounds. By spending 5 minutes roleplaying operating on your target
and then spending 1 Mind Point, your target will regain up to 3 Health Points.
Multiple Mind Points may be expended at once this way without increasing the
required roleplay time. A wounded patient cannot do anything other than lay
prone while the user of this Skill works on them, and anything that interrupts
this process restarts the required amount of time.

187
 Medical Genius (MP-1 Per 10)
     There’s a difference between patching someone up and being able to
perform advanced surgeries. With this Skill, your character has gained advanced
knowledge of the medical workings of the body, and can provide treatment that
borders on scienti c genius. By expending 5 minutes roleplaying treating a
target and expending 1 Mind Point, you can heal up to 10 Body. Multiple Mind
Points may be expended at once this way without increasing the required roleplay
time. A wounded patient cannot do anything other than lay prone while the
user of this Skill works on them, and anything that interrupts this process
restarts the required amount of time. After this Skill is purchased, time
required for Medical Assistance drops from 5 minutes to 1 minute. This Skill
may also be required to perform specialized medical procedures in special story
circumstances; staff will provide the costs and time requirements for such
procedures.
Melee Weapon Expert (MP-5 Per 2)
     Simply knowing how to swing a weapon doesn’t mean that you’re an expert.
Those with this Skill, though, are another story. A person with Melee Weapon
Expert has become so lethal with different forms of melee weaponry that every
strike  nds its way to more vital portions of the body. With the Skill, you may
increase the amount of damage you can declare with a single weapon by 2 for
every 5 Mind Points spent, up to an overall maximum of 20 damage. (Melee Weapon
Expert can never cause an attack to in ict over 20 damage.) For example, if your
weapon normally swings for 5 Damage, you can spend 10 Mind Points and swing for
9 Damage. The duration of this effect is 5 minutes. The user must stand Still
for 30 seconds, with a weapon at the ready, before announcing use of this Skill
as they prepare themselves with battle focus or meditation.  Melee Weapon expert
may only be used on weapons covered under Melee skills (not Brawling) unless
equipment states otherwise.
Melee Weapon, Large (MP-Nil)
     This Skill costs no Mind Points, and allows its owner to wield a melee
weapon no smaller than 36 inches in length and no longer than 53 inches in
length (see weapon rules). Default large weapons deal 2 damage if wielded in one
hand and 3 damage if wielded in two hands. Hand and a half or “bastard” weapons
fall in this category.
Melee Weapon, Small (MP-Nil)
     This Skill costs no Mind Points, and allows its owner to wield a melee
weapon no shorter than 12 inches and no longer than 21 inches in length (see
weapon rules). Default small weapons deal 2 damage.
Melee Weapon, Standard (MP-Nil)
    This Skill costs no Mind Points, and allows its owner to wield a melee
weapon no smaller than 18 inches in length and no longer than 39 inches in
length (see weapon rules). Default standard weapons deal 2 damage.
188

 Melee Weapon, Two Handed (MP-Nil)
    This Skill costs no Mind Points, and allows its owner to wield a melee
weapon no smaller than 50 inches in length and no longer than 63 inches in
length. This weapon is required to be wielded with two hands at all times (see
weapon rules). Default two-handed weapons deal 3 damage. If a Disarming Strike
or Shot is used on a Melee Two handed weapon, the two handed weapon is not
dropped, but instead is disarmed from one of the two hands and un-wieldable for
5 seconds (cannot strike, defend, or use Skills with this weapon). If Disarming
Shot is used when a two handed weapon is carried in one hand, the weapon is
disarmed.
Mind Resistance (MP-10)
     This Skill counters psionic abilities or attacks, such as Toys in the
Attic, Pyro, Enslavement, Body Puppet, and others. This Skill also counters
Torture by allowing you to remain silent rather than answering. A person with
this Skill has trained their mind to be able to resist psionic attacks, or
perhaps just survived so many they’ve built up natural defenses. By spending 10
Mind Points the user may ignore any one psionic ability or attack. This includes
both mental effects such as Toys In the Attic, as well as physical effects like
Pyro. Mind Resistance is also the appropriate Skill to use against Torture,
allowing the user to refuse to answer a Torture question. They may not lie in
response to this question - unless they also use the Lie Skill, however. This
Skill may be used during Bleed Out.
Murder Most Foul (MP-10)
     Some prefer killing others by bludgeoning them to death. Then there are
others that can still a heart with one stroke of a knife. By spending 10 Mind
Points and calling “Murder!” the user of this Skill may make a single attack
that does 10 points of damage. If this damage is enough to cause someone to
enter Bleed Out, they skip the Bleed Out process and are immediately slain as
though they received a Killing Blow. This skill can only be used with a Small
melee weapon or with a ranged weapon  red within two paces of a target’s back.
It cannot be used in combination with other combat Skills, with the exception of
Backstab. Parry cannot counter this Skill.
Nail (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Avoid or Bounce. This Skill allows a person
to impale a target using a javelin or bow. By spending 5 Mind Points, calling
“Nail, stuck in place, 5 minutes!” and landing a successful strike with a thrown
javelin or bow, the user renders a target unable to move from that spot for 5
minutes, unless someone else comes over and role-plays removing the stuck weapon
for at least a count of 10.  (Targets cannot normally free themselves, though
certainly inhumanly strong or physically abnormal NPCs may be able to do so with
the Pull Through Skill.) Persons hit with this Skill are required to lift the
thrown javelin or arrow packet and place it under their arm to show that they
are pinned to the spot. The attack still in icts its standard damage.
Nerve Punch (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Parry, assuming the strike is delivered from the
front. By spending 5 Mind Points, calling “Nerve Punch, drop held items!” and
landing a successful brawling strike to an opponent, the user can brie y shock
an opponent. A successful Nerve Punch causes the target to immediately drop all
items in both hands.

189
 Parry (MP-5)
     This Skill counters all melee and brawling strikes delivered from the front
(though if one is delivered from behind, you’re out of luck). This includes
Break Armor, Break Weapon, Break Shield, Blinding, Charge, Disarm, Frightening
Force, Mangle Limb, Nerve Punch, Sever, Slaughter, Take Down, Wide Strike and
any other basic melee strike.  Being able to turn aside a blow is a good way to
keep yourself alive. This Skill allows you to expend 5 Mind Points and declare
“Parry!” to negate a single melee or brawling strike and its
effects, provided that the strike hit the front
180 degrees of the defender. If you’re struck
from behind, this Skill cannot be used, even if
you knew the attacker was there. In addition,
you can only use this Skill if you have
a melee weapon or brawlers at the
ready, as well as the appropriate
Melee Weapon or Brawling Skill to
wield it (if that blade is sheathed,
then you’re out of luck). Lastly,
Parry can never be used against
the following skills: Backstab,
Choking Blow, or Murder Most
Foul.
Patch Job (MP-1 or 5)
This skill allows a character to quickly repair a Broken, Destroyed, or Melted item without a Workbench. By spending 1 Mind Point and 30 Seconds, the item’s Crafts Level is permanently reduced by 1 and is immediately repaired. The Weapon or Armor repaired in this fashion loses the extra damage or armor points gained from that level of Improvement lost. If the item is Crafts Level 1 and cannot have its Crafts Level further reduced, the costs of this Skill increase to 5 Mind Points. Note that Patch Job does not restore Armor Points lost due to damage, only those lost due to
a Break, Destroy, or Melt effect, returning the armor to its previous Armor Points before it was Broken, Destroyed, or Melted. While roleplaying patching the item, you should make use of props such as duct tape, twine, or a glue bottle to  x the target item. Patching an item requires 2 hands, and can be interrupted if the repairer utilizes any combat Skills or falls into Bleed Out. If the process is interrupted, all Mind Points invested are lost.
Pick Pockets (MP-1)
    Sometimes the best things happen to belong to someone else— but that doesn’t
mean they can’t be yours. Knowing how subtly lift items from someone else’s
pockets or bags is a good way to make a living— as long as you aren’t caught.
You must carry black clothespins to use this Skill, and as with all in-game
theft activity you must register with the Storytelling staff that you are using
this skill. To use Pick Pocket, spend 1 Mind Point and attempt to af x one of
these clothespins to a target’s purse or pocket; if it is successfully attached
without the target noticing, a Staff Member will then approach the victim and
obtain one item from that pocket. This item will be brought back to Logistics to
be retrieved by the user later. Only Item Cards, resource cards (such as Herbs
or Scraps), or currency may be stolen with this Skill. Costume pieces and prop
items without Item Cards and in-game items that do not  t into a pocket, such
as armor and most weapons, cannot be stolen with this Skill. The pins are to
be considered completely out of game, and while someone can notice the act of
placing it (and react accordingly to the perceived attempted theft), a pin that
has been placed successfully without the thief being noticed must be ignored by
all those around.
190

 Pistol Whip (MP-Nil)
Guns don’t generally make effective melee weapons; but if you’re backed into
a corner and all else fails, desperation can make them into small clubs. With this Skill, you may carry a Small melee weapon to represent your capacity to cudgel enemies with your  rearm, though no melee related skills may be used in conjunction with
this use of the weapon—save for parry. Certain weapon  rearms item card allow for use of additional melee related Skills. A number of bayonet style weapon Gizmos exist speci cally to be used with the Pistol Whip Skill. Firearms physical representations must be a melee weapons Small weapon able to pass a safety check in order to be used in melee, and thus must be contact safe. At no point may a hard shell metal, wood or plastic Physical Representation be used to strike, no matter how cool it looks.
Prepare Meal (MP-Variable)
This Skill allows a character to create refreshing and ful lling meals from
Herbs and Produce. By spending 5 Mind Points, the required Herbs or Produce, and 30 Minutes role playing at a crafted Kitchen, the Cook may take the required components to Logistics to have a new Meal card issued. Meals, unless otherwise stated, expire after 2 days, contain 1 serving, and require 10 minutes to consume to gain the bene ts. Only one person may bene t from a single serving of a Meal. Cooking a meal requires 2 hands, and can be interrupted if the cook leaves the area within 5 feet of the camp re or kitchen, utilizes any combat Skills, or falls into Bleed Out. If the process is interrupted, all Mind Points invested are lost.
During the process of production a player may only use one item to manipulate crafting times or production results unless the used items speci cally state that they stack with other items.
The following are Meal Recipes that anyone with this Skill knows how to produce. Note that other Meal Recipes may be discovered in game with their own Mind, Skill, and Resource requirements to produce. Non-standard Meal Recipes must be present while role playing cooking, and presented to logistics when getting the new meal issued. Some abilities or items may reduce the time requirement for Prepare Meal. The minimum time for Prepare Meal, without the assistance of an Able Helper, is 10 minutes.
Basic Meal
Effect: 1 Serving, Restore 10 Mind Points
Requires 1 Produce, 1 Rare Herb OR 2 Uncommon Herb OR 3 Basic Herb Expires in 48 Hours
Generic Meal
Effect: 90 Oz of produced food. Counts as 3 servings
Does not have a mechanical effect and may not be improved with Healthy Feast or Disguise Content. Requires 1 Produce. Expires in 48 hours.
Pray for Justice (MP-5)
When used as a ranged attack, this skill is defended against with only with
the skill ‘Avoid’ (no other skill). Gods may be merciful and gods may be wrathful. When a truly devout person calls upon that wrath, it can be terrifying to behold.
By spending 5 Mind Points, calling out to your god for vengeance and making a successful ranged attack, you may in ict 10 Blessed damage upon a target. The deity worshiped must be clearly named - if the target of this effect worships the same deity they take no damage. A person with this skill may also choose instead to spend 5 Mind Points and Pray for Justice over a melee weapon or knucks; the  rst three strikes with that weapon in ict 10 points of Blessed (Type) damage. In addition, when Pray for Justice is purchased, Faith Healing time drops from 5 minutes to 2 minutes of prayer.

191
 Psionic Basic Skill (MP-5)
     This skill is defended against with Mind Resist, if the skill targets
another player. This skill allows a Psionicist to permanently add one Basic
skill from the Psionics Skill List to their sheet. This skill may be purchased
multiple times. The Psionics Skill Lists can be found immediately after the end
of the regular Skill List.
Psionic Intermediate Skill (MP-10)
    This skill is defended against with Mind Resist, if the skill targets
another player. This skill allows a Psionicist to permanently add one
Intermediate skill from the Psionics Skill List to their sheet. This skill may
be purchased multiple times, but a Psionicist may not have more Intermediate
skills than half the number of Basic skills on their sheet (rounded down).
Psionic Advanced Skill (MP-15)
    This skill is defended against with Mind Resist, if the skill targets
another player. This skill allows a Psionicist to permanently add one Advanced
skill from the Psionics Skill List to their sheet. This skill may be purchased
multiple times, but a Psionicist may not have more Advanced skills than half the
number of Intermediate skills on their sheet (rounded down).
Refuse (MP-1)
     Being able to harden your emotions against someone’s social wiles can be
useful. This skill allows you to spend 1 Mind Point to ignore a single use of
a behavior altering social skill such as Beg for Life, Challenge, Charisma,
Entertain, or Fear. This skill does not protect against psionic powers.
Repair (MP-Variable)
     This skill allows a character to repair a Broken, Destroyed, or Melted
item, as well as restore lost Armor Points to armor. By spending 1 Mind Point
and 10 Minutes per Crafts Level of the target item role playing repairing the
item at a Workbench, the repairer may  x the item, making it usable again.
Additional Mind Points may be spent to cut down Repair time, at a rate of 1 Mind
Point per 10 Minutes reduced to a minimum of 10 Minutes. For example, a Crafts
Level 3 item would take 3 Mind Points and 30 Minutes to Repair, or 4 Mind Points
and 20 Minutes, or 5 Mind Points and 10 Minutes. Repairing an item requires 2
hands, and can be interrupted if the repairer leaves the area within 5 feet
of the workbench, utilizes any combat skills, or falls into Bleed Out. If the
process is interrupted, all Mind Points invested are lost.
Rescue (MP-5)
This skill is countered by Chase. This skill allows a character to quickly carry another person to escape from a bad situation. You cannot use this skill while under the effects of Nail, a Mangled Leg, or Tie Binds, and you must have at least one functional Arm. By spending 5 Mind Points and declaring “Rescue!”, the rescuer may use a combination the Skill “Carry 5” and “Escape 10 Paces” simultaneously on a single character within arm’s reach. To represent carrying a person, gently grip your target’s hand after calling the effect and then jog your 10 paces away from combat, during which time you cannot be targeted or pursued. All characters have a Carry Rating of 1, unless otherwise speci ed. Rescue may only be used on willing targets or targets that are Knocked Out, Bound, or in Bleed Out. If a target does not meet the above requirements, the skill fails, and the Mind Points invested are lost. Rescue cannot be used on objects, only people.
192

 Sailing (MP-Nil)
This skill represents access to shipping lanes and ports of call, allowing you to swap materials for cash and operate boats. At Check In, you may sell Scrap at the following rates:
1 Named Scrap for 3 Local Currency
1 Rare Scrap for 2 Local Currency
2 Uncommon Scrap for 2 Local Currency 3 Basic Scrap for 2 Local Currency
You may also  nd special items available for sale exclusively through Sailing connections or information provided to you by local ‘sailing maps’. Unique Sailing Routes, Boats, Maps, and other items can sometimes be obtained in game that open up additional trade opportunities through this skill.
Scatter Shot (MP-5)
This skill is countered by Avoid or Bounce. Standard  rearms don’t  re nearly as fast in this day and age. But with skill, and a fast hand fanning the hammer, a trained Gun Slinger can  re so quickly that it seems like all of the bullets are  red at once. With this skill, the user may spend 5 Mind Points and gesture at up
to six targets within three steps. Those six targets immediately receive the damage or skill effect declared with this action, though targets may use defensive skills as normal. For sakes of unique weapon and skill effect, each of the 6 shots are considered their own individual attack. As an example munitions, gizmos, and other single shot mechanical items that only effect 1 shot will only be in effect for the  rst shot, while munitions, Gizmos, and effects that last for a duration of time or at least 6 shots will strike all targets. Munition, Gizmos, and effects may not be added or swapped out part way through a use of scatter shot.
SCIENCE! (MP-Variable)
Some technology that is recovered requires a greater understanding of scienti c reasoning to comprehend or operate. These items have information envelopes on them with a dif culty level on the outside. A player with SCIENCE! must spend Mind Points to match the dif cultly level of the item in order to  gure out how the device operates. Each Mind Point requires 10 minutes of role playing investigating the item, though by spending Mind Points above and beyond the technological dif culty the duration of investigation may be reduced by 5 minutes per Mind Point (to a minimum of 1 minute). While a single individual must spend the initial Mind Points to begin the ‘scienti c process,’ a group of individuals with SCIENCE! may role play assisting in order to contribute Mind Points toward reducing the necessary time. Once this time has passed, the lead character using SCIENCE! may open the envelope and read the details of the device. SCIENCE! may also be a required skill to make sense of particularly wonky Blueprints and other strange plot items.
Scrounge (MP-1)
There isn’t much in the way of mass production anymore, so being able to pick out the useful bits from the rubble helps. A person with this skill has the ability to pick up Scrounge cards from the ground. You don’t have to spend Mind Points to identify these cards, but you do have to spend 1 Mind Point per level of the card when scrounging. These Scrounge cards will be located across the game site, and require you to physically hunt them down and  nd them in order to collect them. You must spend 2 minutes role playing ‘harvesting’ or ‘gathering’ the scrounge card for each level on the card. Cards cannot be partially collected and if combat or something else interrupts you, then you must leave the card. Once you collect the card, you can turn the scrounge card into Logistics to receive a random scrounged item—usually Scrap or Herb (notated on the card). Note that if you do not have the Scrounge skill, you cannot pick up Scrounge cards from the ground or point out the existence of scrounge cards to other people.

193
 Sever (MP-5)
     This skill can be countered by Parry if it’s delivered to the front. By
spending 5 Mind Points and landing a successful melee attack, the user of Sever
can declare 15 damage with a single strike. This damage does not stack with any
other damage bonuses.
Shield (MP-Nil)
     This skill costs no Mind Points, and allows the user of this skill to
wield a shield. Shields do not prevent damage from  rearms, and may not be used
as weapons. For example, if someone  res bullets at your shield, you take the
damage; the shield does not block it.  Instead, shields can be used to block
thrown weapons, bows and melee attacks.  For safety reasons shields may not have
a surface area of more than 9 total square feet. Holes and carved out sections
will not deduct from the total of 9 square feet of surface area. A shield may
not stand more than 4 feet tall, nor wider than 4 feet wide at its widest point.
Examples: A rectangle shield that is 4 feet tall cannot be more than 2
feet and three inches wide to remain under the 9 square foot restriction. A shield that is 3 feet tall may be 3 feet wide to remain under the 9 square foot restriction. A “grid” shield that is a series of banded bars with open spaces still may not be more than 3 feet tall if 3 feet wide, as the interior holes do not subtract from the total surface space.
    Items that are not crafted shields may NEVER be used as a shield. Strikes
that land on ‘improvised shields’ are considered hits, and usage of improvised
items as shields will result in safety violations (IE: Using a briefcase as a
shield).
Smelt (MP-1)
     This skill allows a character to break down Scrap into its component
parts and re ne metals. By spending 1 Mind Point and 10 Minutes role playing
working at a Forge, the smelter may turn in the required materials at Logistics
to convert 1 Rare Scrap into 2 Uncommon Scrap, or 1 Uncommon Scrap into 2
Basic Scrap. While role playing smelting, you must make a signi cant amount of
noise (there is no “quiet” crafting!). Smelting requires 2 hands, and can be
interrupted if the smelter leaves the area within 5 feet of the Forge, utilizes
any combat skills, or falls into Bleed Out. If the process is interrupted, all
Mind Points spent and materials invested are lost. Other Metallurgy Plans may be
discovered in game that allow for Named Scrap to be Smelted. Non-standard plans
must be present while role playing smelting, and presented to logistics when
getting the new item issued
Sniped Shot (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Avoid or Bounce. This Skill allows a person to
make a single ranged weapon attack that hits without a need to  re a dart, throw
a packet or toss a thrown weapon or javelin. By spending 5 Mind Points, you can
simply point at your target and call out ”Sniped Shot X!” where X equals their
weapon’s damage or Skill used and damage. Sniped Shot may be used in conjunction
with other ranged combat Skills, even more than one at a time, though it
requires meeting their requirements, spending their Mind Point costs and adding
them to the Skill call. For example: “Sniped Shot! Concentrated Fire: Shield!
Destroy Shield!”.
194

 Society Membership (Varies)
     Special groups, societies, and organizations still exist within the world,
and whether public knowledge or a closely guarded secret, they don’t take just
anyone. Society membership is only offered depending on your activities and
thus cannot be taken during character creation; it can only be earned during
play. Acquiring this Skill represents your acceptance into a closed society of
some kind, and it can only be taught by an existing member, typically as part
of an initiation process. This member is known as your sponsor, and once you
are brought into the fold, their name remains on your character sheet next to
your membership status. Societies may offer a wide variety of bene ts, from
simple social circles to access to unusual resources and expertise, though it
should also be noted that all societies have rules and codes of conduct that
members are expected to uphold. Failure to do so can result in expulsion from
the society, and possibly other repercussions. While each society is unique, as
a rule the more secretive the society is and/or the more powerful the bene ts it
offers, the farther members will go to punish those that stray.
    This Skill costs no Experience Points to acquire, however, at any point
a person at least two steps above you in the society - that is, one rank
above your sponsor - can either reassign you to a lower member or remove your
membership completely. In most societies, your sponsor is held accountable for
your actions, and at any time another society member can learn your sponsor’s
name (may ask OOC). New societies may not be created without written permission
from the game director  rst. This Skill may be used, as per a Lore, to learning
standing and details within said secret society.
Take Down (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Balance and Parry. By spending 5 Mind Points,
calling “Take Down!” and making a successful brawling attack or attack with a
two handed melee weapon, the user of this Skill knocks an opponent off of their
feet. A person who has been affected by Takedown can still defend themselves
(block, not attacking); however, they must drop to the ground and take no
actions other than defending themselves for 10 seconds.  During the duration of
Take Down a character cannot use Skills.

195
 Teach (MP-Nil)
     Being able to teach someone can be a valuable tool. This skill costs no
Mind Points, and allows you to teach a Skill or Profession that you possess to a
single student. This Skill requires 5 minutes of roleplay for every Experience
Point the student must spend to gain this Skill or Profession, to a maximum of
30 minutes. You may only teach Skills that a person can purchase from either
their Profession List or the Open Skill List; the Skill will be available for
the student to use at the next Twelves. A new Profession becomes available at
the next event; a student cannot learn any Skills for their new Profession until
that time, even if they have suf cient Experience Points to do so. The only
exception to these rules is if you have the Bay Walker “Fast Learner” advantage.
While this does not allow a Bay Walker to teach a Profession immediately (the
pupil still has to wait until the next event for it to become available), it
does allow a Bay Walker to make Skills immediately available to a pupil— as long
as they spend 1 Mind Point.
Throwing (MP-Nil)
    This Skill costs no Mind Points to activate, and allows its owner to
use throwing weapons under 12 inches in size. These weapons must be designed
according to the weapon creation rules, and under no circumstances may other
kinds of weapons be thrown. Thrown weapon Item Cards always represent ‘sets
of 6’ and must be transferred this way. Standard thrown weapons do 2 point of
damage. Improvements to thrown weapons are applied to all six items on each
card.
Throwing, Javelins (MP-Nil)
    This Skill costs no Mind Points to activate, and allows its owner to use
throwing javelins between 12 and 50 inches in size. Throwing weapons must be
designed according to the weapon creation rules, and under no circumstances
may other kinds of weapons be thrown. Standard thrown javelins do 3 points of
damage. Javelins must be at least 12 inches in length. Each javelin has its own
Item Card.
Tie Bonds (MP-1)
     This Skill is countered by Escape Bonds. By spending 1 Mind Point, you can
tie a bond on willing, Bleeding Out or unconscious targets. A Tied Bond limits
the actions a person can take; bound hands prevent that person from  ghting
or manipulating objects, while bound feet prevent that person from moving at
anything faster than a slow walk. In addition, a person with bound feet can be
prevented from moving by anyone not also restrained; this simply requires gently
touching the bound target on the shoulder and announcing that you have halted
their movement. A section of rope or fabric is used to represent bonds, draped
across both wrists of a target or tied around one ankle. (For safety reasons, a
player should never be actually tied up or otherwise restrained.) Bonds may be
removed by anyone not bound themselves, unless an Item Card is used that locks
the binds; removal instructions will be found on the Item Card.
196

 Torture (MP-5)
     This Skill can be countered by Mind Resist. We do what we have to in
this world to survive. Sometimes, you need to take a darker path to extract
information from a subject. This Skill allows you to cause harm to a subject
without killing them in order to extract truth from them. After spending 5 Mind
Points, you may spend 10 minutes roleplaying torturing a subject. At the end
of that time, you may ask a single, simple question, which must be answered
truthfully and completely. A person must be rendered totally helpless or have
Tie Binds on them to be tortured with this Skill. The Lie Skill cannot be
used to negate the use of the Torture Skill, as the pain is too great to lie
convincingly; however, Mind Resistance may be declared instead, which does not
allow the user to lie, but does allow the victim to stay silent.
    Each use of torture causes 1 point of damage to the target in a Torture
session. Armor does not apply against this damage, nor do most forms of damage
reduction, as the time required means the torturer has avoided armor and found
a target’s weak spots. Torture may not be used on someone who is currently in
Bleed Out, as the urgency of their own imminent death trumps the little bit of
extra pain being applied to them.
Trade Ties (MP-Nil)
     This Skill represents access to bartering connections, allowing you to swap
certain resources for ones you need more. During Check In, you may trade Scrap
and Herb at the following rates:
2 Scrap 1 Herb of the Same Quality (Basic, Uncommon, Rare)
3 Basic Scrap
3 Uncommon Scrap
3 Basic Herb
3 Uncommon Herb
 1 Uncommon Scrap
    1 Rare Scrap
1 Uncommon Herb
   1 Rare Herb
Herb gained through this Skill is considered Wild and has a 3 month expiration. Scrap or Herb traded in this way cannot be exchanged more than once, so you cannot trade 6 Uncommon Scrap for 3 Uncommon Herbs, and immediately
trade them again for 1 Rare Herb. You may also  nd special items available for sale exclusively through Trade Ties. Unique Trade Routes, Caravans, Maps, and other items can sometimes be obtained in game that open up additional trade opportunities through this Skill. This Skill may only be used by a character at their home game.
Transcribe (MP-5)
     Being able to copy something can be crucial— especially when it comes to
passing along vital information. The art of transcribing is a powerful Skill,
as it allows a person to be able to copy complex documents without needing to
understand what it is they contain. A person with this Skill may expend 5 Mind
Points and spend 30 minutes transcribing any one Blueprint, Plan, Recipe, or
other single page document. This may be done even if the Transcribe user does
not possess the normally required Skills listed for duplicating said document.
In addition, many complex documents require Transcribe to recreate at all.  Many
transcription projects will require special tools, such as the Printer’s Table
or speci c transcription tools or Gizmos.

197
 Trap Making (MP-Variable)
     This Skill allows a character to take Scrap and build various Traps.
By spending 2 Mind Points and 20 Minutes at a Workbench roleplaying the
fabrication, the crafter may take the required Scrap cards to Logistics to
be traded in for a new Trap card. All Traps start at Crafts Level 1 unless
otherwise speci ed. While roleplaying making the item, you must make a
signi cant amount of noise (there is no “quiet” crafting!). Crafting requires
2 hands, and can be interrupted if the crafter leaves the area within 5 feet
of the Sorkbench, utilizes any combat skills, or falls into Bleed Out. If the
process is interrupted, all Mind Points spent and materials invested are lost.
Some abilities or items may reduce the time requirement for Trap Making. The
minimum time, without the assistance of an Able Helper, is 5 minutes.
    During the process of production a player may only use one item to
manipulate crafting times or production results unless the used items
speci cally state that they stack with other items.
    Traps can be improved during creation by spending an additional 2 Mind
Points, 10 Minutes, and 1 Rare Scrap per Crafts Level being improved. Each time
the trap is improved, it can have one of the following upgrades added.
    Increase Damage Output by +5
    Add a +3 Second Delay
    Increase the effect Radius by +2 feet
    Traps can be attached to various objects or locations, have different styles
of triggers, and a variety of effects. An item may only have as many traps
attached to it as 1 more than the Crafts Level of the item (a container that
is Crafts Level 3 may only have 4 traps attached to it while an uncrafted item
may only have one trap attached to it).  A Trap will specify whether it can be
attached to an object, door, container, or ground. A Trap will specify whether
it is triggered by opening a door or container, snapping a string or trip wire,
a pressure plate being stepped on, or moving a target object. When a Trap is
mounted via the Attach skill, the card is mounted face down or in a sealed
envelope so it cannot be read until it is activated or disarmed. The back of the
card or envelope should be labeled as a Trap, including its Trigger type and the
Crafts Level of the trap. When a Trap is triggered, the card should be revealed,
and it’s effects occur in the order listed for purposes of calling defenses.
    The following table lists Trap Blueprints automatically known by everyone
with this Skill. Note that other trap blueprints may be discovered in-game with
their own Mind, Skill, and Resource requirements to produce. Non-standard trap
blueprints must present while roleplaying crafting, and presented to logistics
when getting the new item issued.
Trap Design
Generic Box Trap
Generic Trip Line
198
Af x To
Container
Snap String strung between two objects
Trigger
Open Container
Breaking Snap String
Effect
At Arm’s Length: ~ 5 Body Damage
To Springer:
~ 2 Damage
~ Mangle Limb
(One Leg)
Resources Required
Basic Scrap x2
Uncommon Scrap x1

 Trap Design
Af x To
Trigger
Effect
To Entire Room:
~ 10 Body Damage
Within 5’ Radius: ~ 5 Body Damage
To Springer:
~ 7 Body Damage
Resources Required
Rare Scrap x1
Basic Scrap x2 Uncommon
Scrap x2 Basic Scrap x2
Generic Gas Trap
Generic Spike Volley
Generic Pull Cord Rig
Container
Marked Paper Sheet on the Ground
String, attached to non-container object
Open Container
Stepping on Marked Area (size of paper sheet)
Moving object af xed to string.
    Other traps may be created with the use of Designs. Designs may be
discovered in-game and require possession of the Designs and meeting any
prerequisites (often Literacy and/or Attach) in order to use them.
Unlock (MP-Variable)
     This Skill allows you to bypass Lock Gizmos. By spending 1 Mind per Crafts
Level of the target Lock, you may place a clothespin on the target Lock Gizmo
card and begin the required time roleplaying picking the lock. You must spend
1 Minute plus 1 additional Minute per Crafts Level of the target Lock. This
roleplay can be subtle, but must be entirely focused on the lock. Unlocking
requires 2 Hands, and can be interrupted if the unlocker is forced away from
target lock, uses combat Skills, or takes any damage. If interrupted, the Lock
remains locked, and all Mind Points invested are lost. To reduce the time
required to Unlock, each additional Mind Point spent will remove 1 minute from
the required time, down to a minimum of 2 Minutes. Locks that have been Unlocked
must have a clothespin left on the Lock Gizmo card to indicate that this Skill
has been used to gain access, and not simply ignored by the player. Locks that
are opened with the Unlock Skill are not broken, simply disabled until locked
again.
Vanish (MP-5)
     This Skill is countered by Alert. Versed in camou age techniques, the user
can become invisible if they have 80% environmental cover and are unobserved
when this Skill is activated. Vanish costs 5 Mind Points per use. You must be
prone and are unable to move from where you have vanished; however, Skills
and ranged attacks do not end the effect. Only movement, the Alert Skill, or
the presence of someone within 10 feet when the Vanish user activates a Skill
or attacks breaks the effect. Once broken, Vanish may not be used again for
30 minutes. The Vanish Skill may not be used when under the effects of Nail,
however, may be used with other forms of restricted movement (Bound limbs,
Mangled limbs, etc.) Interacting with the environment (opening doors, picking up
items, talking, using Skills, etc) ends this Skill.

199
 Weld (MP-5)
     This Skill allows a character to combine Scrap into more complicated
and useful components. By spending 5 Mind Points and 10 Minutes role playing
welding materials at a Forge, the welder may turn in the required materials at
Logistics to convert 4 Basic Scrap into 1 Uncommon Scrap, or 4 Uncommon Scrap
into 1 Rare Scrap. While roleplaying welding, you must make a signi cant amount
of noise (there is no “quiet” crafting!). Welding requires 2 hands, and can be
interrupted if the welder leaves the area within 5 feet of the Forge, utilizes
any combat skills, or falls into Bleed Out. If the process is interrupted,
all Mind Points spent and materials invested are lost. Many Engineering Plans
require Welding, and some special Welding Plans may be discovered in game that
allow for other items to be Welded. Non-standard plans must be present while
role playing welding, and presented to Logistics when getting the new item
issued.
Wide Strike (MP-10)
     This Skill is countered by Parry. By spending 10 Mind Points, a user may
call ‘Wide Strike’ and gesture at up to six targets within weapon’s reach. Those
six targets immediately receive the damage or Skill effect of either a melee
or brawling attack declared with this action, though targets may use defensive
skills are normally.  If a Skill is linked with Wide Strike, all targets must be
legal for both Skills; however, the Mind Point cost of this secondary skill is
only spent once. Example: Surrounded by shield carrying Final Knights zealots,
a survivor calls out “Wide Strike, Break Shield!” and spends 15 Mind Points.
Unless defensive Skills are called, up to 6 shields within melee range of that
360 degree arc are destroyed. If Break Weapon or Disarming Blow is called and a
target is wielding two weapons, assume the main hand weapon is targeted.
200

 Universal Crafted Items
There are a number of crafted items that are used in day-to-day existence that most skilled crafters can make. Be it that you are an Engineer that knows how to construct a home, or a Tinkerer who is skilled in crafting weapons, it should be assumed that there are a number of mechanical items that can be crafted by both Skill sets. Unfortunately, we cannot outline every single item that could feasibly be useful in the post-apocalypse. What we have done is produced a list of mechanical items that both Forging the Future and Building Tomorrow are both capable of producing. Requirements for Workbench or Forge still remain with the skillset being used, however, the crafting time and required supplies remain the same across both crafting Skill sets.
Door
Production Cost: 10 Mind Production Time: 30 Minutes
Materials: 2 Basic Scrap per Crafts Level (max craft 5) Expires: N/A Mechanics: Each Crafts Level of a door counts as a level 1 barricade
for those that are looking to break down a door.  Locks do not increase the
barricade level of a door, however, any use of the skill Barricade on a crafted
door have their Crafts Level added to the existing Crafts Level of the door.
    Doors cannot be placed in areas where doorways don’t exist in the real
world.  Doors may be used on tents.  Once doors are put into place, they may
not be moved again unless broken or done between games (taking doors of the
hinges over complicates a simple mechanic).  Uncrafted (real world) doors are
considered crafts level 0 (breaks with a single hit) for breaching purposes.
    Doors are broken the same way barricades are.
Storage Box
Production Cost: 10 Mind Production Time: 30 Minutes
Materials: 2 Basic Scrap per Crafts Level (max craft 5) Expires: N/A Mechanics: (Max size, 3ftx3ftx3ft) Each Crafts Level of a Storage Box
counts as a level 1 barricade for those that are looking to break the box open.
Storage Boxes can hold up to 30 Scrap and Herb Cards or 3 crafted Item Cards
that are small than the Storage Box.  Locks do not increase the barricade level
of the Storage Box.  Storage Boxes may not be Barricaded.
    Storage Boxes require real world physical representations.  Storage Boxes
innately have a Carry rate of 1.  In the instance that an item that has a higher
Carry rate than 1 is put in the box, the Storage Box has a Carry rate equal to
the highest Carry rate item in the box.  This increased Carry rate must be noted
on the outside of the box. Uncrafted (real world) Storage Boxes are considered
Crafts Level 0 (breaks with a single hit) for breaching purposes.
    Storage Boxes are broken the same way Barricades are.

201
 Room Decor
Production Cost: 10 Mind Production Time: 30 Minutes
Materials: 10 Basic Scrap per Crafts Level (max craft 5) Expires: 1 Year Mechanics: Does not provide any mechanical advantage save for being more
dif cult to break.  If you are looking to have a higher quality décor to a room,
then either an Engineer or a Tinkerer can put together the visual décor accent
pieces you are looking for.  Creation of bar rooms, recreation centers, high
quality bedrooms, damage resistant beds, lamps that don’t break the  rst time
someone bumps them, and quality crafted materials is all covered under Room
Decor.  This is not a single item, but instead a number of smaller additions to
a building that are permanently a part of a building or room.  Items crafted in
this way are considered bolted down, and cannot be moved unless between games.
Room décor that is not crafted is considered Crafts Level 0 (breaks with a
single hit) for breaching purposes.
    Room Décor is broken the same way Barricades are.
Craptacular Caravan
Production Cost: 10 Mind Production Time: 30 Minutes
Materials: 20 Basic Scrap per Crafts Level (max craft 5) Expires: 1 Year Mechanics: Craptacular Caravans are the most basic requirement for a
Diesel Jock vehicle, sometimes are required for trade routes, and are an item
not used during the duration of game.  Certain trade routes may require either
a Blueprint crafted vehicle or a Craptacular Caravan to be crafted to at least
a certain level to work (representing carry ability).  Each Crafts Level of a
Craptacular Caravan represents 5 people that the vehicle could carry (with their
supplies) during downtime travels.
Basic Fishing Pole
Production Cost: 10 Mind Production Time: 30 Minutes
Materials: 2 Basic Scrap per Crafts Level (max craft 5) Expires: 1 Year Mechanics: Basic requirement for multiple uses of the Fishing Skill. If a
character using the Fishing Skill wishes to use the Fishing Fkill multiple times
at once, then the character using the Fishing Skill will need a Fishing Pole
Gizmo to be crafted for each use of the Fishing Skill being used at the same
time.  Basic physical representations are required for Fishing Poles.  Certain
 shing Gizmos will require either a blueprint crafted Fishing Pole or a Basic
Fishing Pole of at least a certain crafts level to operate.
Non-Mechanical Item Smaller Than 2’x2’x2’
Production Cost: 10 Mind Production Time: 30 Minutes
Materials: 2 Basic Scrap per Crafts Level (max craft 5) Expires: 1 Year Mechanics: This item may have no mechanical effect, may not be used in
combination with Skills, and is designed purely for a  avor text or roleplay
item, such as basic tools, jewelry, and clothing.
Non-Mechanical Item Larger Than 2’x2’x2’ but Smaller than 10’x10’x10’ Production Cost: 10 Mind Production Time: 30 Minutes
Materials: 4 Basic Scrap per Crafts Level (max craft 5) Expires: 1 Year Mechanics: This item may have no mechanical effect, may not be used in
combination with Skills, and is designed purely for a  avor text or roleplay
item, such as furniture, lighting, or simple structures.
202

 Lores and Lore Use
Lore, as a Skill and concept, is dif cult for some people to contextually understand. Having a Lore does not allow an individual to have an endless access of information in regards to a particular subject or to know all details of a subject at a glance. Instead, a Lore (as a skill and as a whole) is a volume
of learned information and research that an individual has access to, assuming they have the appropriate tools and/or linked Skills. Often times  nding speci c details in regards to a particular Lore or  eld of information requires deductive reasoning, educated research via the ‘Educated’ Skill, and leaps of personal logic.
With this in mind, Lores are primarily used in conjuncture with the Educated Skill to do research in regards to a speci c subject outlined by a particular Lore. While Educated can be used in researching basic information without appropriate Lores, any truly useful information will require the person doing the research
to have the appropriate Lore Skill. While some Lores have secondary uses in regards to speci c equipment, materials, the primary focus of Lores is to have them available as a research tool.
Information gained through research does not access information that is outside of the scope of ‘prior recorded information’ within a particular Lore. When
asking questions with the research aspect of the Educated Skill, a player could
get an answer to ‘Where are prior recorded areas where the Grave Mind has released people after they died’ but not ‘Why does the Grave Mind build us back together?’ In addition, the information given is different based on the Lores being cited. Using the same example, if a character does not have the Grave Mind lore and asks ‘Where are prior recorded areas where the Grave Mind has released people after
they died’ the answer would be ‘at the locations where the Grave Mind is closest
to the surface’. If the character DID have the Grave Mind lore and asked the same question, the answer could be ‘historically morgues have been set up out by the old mine building, along the river, and beneath the old barn.’ If the same character had Lore: Grave Mind and Lore: Local Area then they would get an answer closer to ‘historically morgues have been set up outside the old mine building, along the river, and beneath the old barn however most people tend to wake up beneath the old barn’.
Use of Lores on the  y will only ever get you the most rudimentary and basic of information. Calling a Lore without researching will often pull limited, if any, response. Lores on the  y, without a skill appropriately expending Mind Points, will only get you one or two word responses if any response at all. Using a Lore on the  y, in particular at a long distance, doesn’t report results. If a target of your Lore use is far enough away that they do not know you are speaking to them, then you are far enough away that the discerning details of what you are looking at are unavailable.
Again, please review the mechanics of Lore skills in the skill section before just attempting to use your Lore skill in ways it is not intended. The following list of Lores are the only Lore categories available to players using the Lore skill.

203
 Lore - Local Area
    This Lore allows a player to research game speci c details in regards to the
local game area they are currently attending. A player may only use this Lore
to research details of the game they are currently at, and it may not be used
to research details outside of the local branch’s designated play area. Lore -
Local Area may be used to research history, geography, political activity, and
general demographics of the branch’s de ned ‘play space’ for events that have
occurred during the duration of active play. This Lore is primarily used to
identify groups and organizations within an area, major historical events that
have occurred, and researching recent location speci c history.
Lore - Animals: Aquatic
    This Lore allows a player to research details of aquatic life speci c to a
general region. The Lore Animals: Aquatic may allow an individual to research
details in regards to commonly found local aquatic animal life, speci c
information on seaborne creatures, as well as identifying potential mutations
and health related issues for local aquatic animals. This Lore covers most
non-humanoid aquatic creatures, and does not provide information in regards to
Saltwise or normally land based animals that have taken to the ocean.
Lore - Animals: Aviary
    This Lore allows a player to research details of airborne life speci c
to a general region. The Lore Animals: Aviary may allow an individual to
research details in regards to commonly found local birds and airborne animal
life, speci c information on  ying creatures, as well as identifying potential
mutations and health related issues for local airborne animals and insects.
Lore - Animals: Mutated
    This Lore allows a player to research details of speci c uniquely mutated
creatures in a local area. The lore of Animals: Mutated covers doing research
into naturally occurring as well as engineered creatures that have been reported
in an area. This lore allows individuals to do research in regards to potential
health patterns, mutated advantages, potential general origins, as well as
projected environmental response to these mutated creatures existence.
Lore - Animals: Subterranean
    This Lore allows a player the ability to research details of primarily
subterranean animals, with a focus on creatures that spend the vast majority
of their life underground. This Lore is not appropriate for creatures that
only nest or slumber in underground hollows, but instead should be used in
the identi cation and classi cation of burrowing and primarily subterranean
creatures. Lascarians, and other forms of underground humanoids, are not covered
by the Lore Animals: Subterranean.
Lore - Animals: Terra Firma
    This Lore allows a player the ability to research details of creatures
that primarily reside on the surface of the land. Animals that take to  ight,
live the majority of their life under water, and reside primarily underground
are covered by other forms of Animal Lore. This Lore allows individuals to do
research in regards to potential health patterns, habitual advantages, impact
and status of a particular animal within a limited environment, as well as
projected environmental response to the activities of these animals.
204

 Lore – Faith: Church of Darwin
This Lore allows a player the ability to research details of a particular
faith in its modern form. While this Lore does not provide historic references that surround the origination of the faith, this Lore does allow a player the ability
to research the names of local faith leaders, major events that have occurred in regards to the faith, Information about speci c holy sites, identify symbols and symbolic references, as well as research historic decision making processes in the community of the particular outlined faith. This Lore is also used in conjunction with a number of items, blueprints, and production materials that require an extensive knowledge of the Church of Darwin to use or craft.
Lore – Faith: Cult of Fallow Hopes
This Lore allows a player the ability to research details of a particular faith in its modern form. While this Lore does not provide historic references that surround the origination of the faith, this Lore does allow a player the ability
to research the names of local faith leaders, major events that have occurred in regards to the faith, Information about speci c holy sites, identify symbols and symbolic references, as well as research historic decision making processes in the community of the particular outlined faith. This Lore is also used in conjunction with a number of items, blueprints, and production materials that require an extensive knowledge of the Cult of Fallow Hopes to use or craft.
Lore – Faith: Final Knight
This Lore allows a player the ability to research details of a particular faith in its modern form. While this Lore does not provide historic references that surround the origination of the faith, this Lore does allow a player the ability
to research the names of local faith leaders, major events that have occurred in regards to the faith, Information about speci c holy sites, identify symbols and symbolic references, as well as research historic decision making processes in the community of the particular outlined faith. This Lore is also used in conjunction with a number of items, blueprints, and production materials that require an extensive knowledge of the Final Knights to use or craft.
Lore – Faith: Kings Court
This Lore allows a player the ability to research details of a particular faith in its modern form. While this Lore does not provide historic references that surround the origination of the faith, this Lore does allow a player the ability
to research the names of local faith leaders, major events that have occurred in regards to the faith, Information about speci c holy sites, identify symbols and symbolic references, as well as research historic decision making processes in the community of the particular outlined faith. This Lore is also used in conjunction with a number of items, blueprints, and production materials that require an extensive knowledge of the Courtiers of the Kings and Queens Court to use or craft.
Lore – Faith: Light of Hedon
This Lore allows a player the ability to research details of a particular faith in its modern form. While this Lore does not provide historic references that surround the origination of the faith, this Lore does allow a player the ability
to research the names of local faith leaders, major events that have occurred in regards to the faith, Information about speci c holy sites, identify symbols and symbolic references, as well as research historic decision making processes in the community of the particular outlined faith. This Lore is also used in conjunction with a number of items, blueprints, and production materials that require an extensive knowledge of the Light of Hedon to use or craft.

205
 Lore – Faith: Minor Cults and Sects
    Much like Lore: (Local), this Lore allows a player to research locally
approved cults and sects that are found primarily in the area of play that
a character is currently in.  This Lore does require that a player know some
details, or information, about the individual sect or cult they are researching.
Blanket research to identify all cults in an area does not fall under the
guidelines of the research portion of the Educated Skill. This Lore does allow a
player to identify religious tenets, symbols, local leadership, and customs of
a particular cult or sect. In addition, by researching details in regards to a
particular item or activity an individual with this Lore may be able to research
details in regards to the identity of the minor Cult or Sect involved.
Lore – Faith: Nuclear Family
    This Lore allows a player the ability to research details of a particular
faith in its modern form.  While this Lore does not provide historic references
that surround the origination of the faith, this Lore does allow a player the
ability to research the names of local faith leaders, major events that have
occurred in regards to the faith, Information about speci c holy sites, identify
symbols and symbolic references, as well as research historic decision making
processes in the community of the particular outlined faith. This Lore is also
used in conjunction with a number of items, blueprints, and production materials
that require an extensive knowledge of the Nuclear Family to use or craft.
Lore – Faith: Sainthood of Ashes
    This Lore allows a player the ability to research details of a particular
faith in its modern form.  While this Lore does not provide historic references
that surround the origination of the faith, this Lore does allow a player the
ability to research the names of local faith leaders,
major events that have occurred in regards to the faith,
Information about speci c holy sites, identify symbols
and symbolic references, as well as research historic
decision making processes in the community of the
particular outlined faith. This Lore is also used
in conjunction with a number of items, blueprints,
and production materials that require an extensive
knowledge of the Sainthood of Ashes to use or craft.
Lore – Faith: Telling Visions
    This Lore allows a player the ability to
research details of a particular faith in
its modern form.  While this Lore does not
provide historic references that surround the
origination of the faith, this Lore does allow
a player the ability to research the names of
local faith leaders, major events that have
occurred in regards to the faith, Information
about speci c holy sites, identify symbols
and symbolic references, as well as research
historic decision making processes in the
community of the particular outlined faith.
This Lore is also used in conjunction with a
number of items, blueprints, and production
materials that require an extensive knowledge
of the Telling Visions to use or craft.
206

 Lore – Faith: Tribes of the Seasons
    This Lore allows a player the ability to research details of a particular
faith in its modern form. While this Lore does not provide historic references
that surround the origination of the faith, this Lore does allow a player the
ability to research the names of local faith leaders, major events that have
occurred in regards to the faith, Information about speci c holy sites, identify
symbols and symbolic references, as well as research historic decision making
processes in the community of the particular outlined faith. This Lore is also
used in conjunction with a number of items, blueprints, and production materials
that require an extensive knowledge of the Tribes of the Seasons to use or
craft.
Lore - Grave Mind
    Knowledge of the undeaded behemoth masses which are related to the spawning
of all Strains and undead, knowledge of Lore: Grave Mind is key in the day-
to-day operations of Grave Robbers as well as individuals who wish to study
and understand the infected condition. This Lore is commonly required for
the creation, distilling, and use of devices that are directly related to
the operation of the Grave Mind.  In addition this Lore may be commonly used
in connection to Research to  nd details such as the location of physical
manifestations of the Grave Mind, investigate strange localized anomalies, and
to research details related to Grave Mind related occurrences such as Necropolis
territories.
Lore – History: Cinema and Entertainment Television
    Knowledge of pre-fall cinema and television shows is rare, even among the
Telling Visionaries.  Most information that the followers of the faith have
has been repeated word of mouth from generation to generation, with very few
every seeing a reliable Telling-vision oracle box.  With this in mind, the
knowledge of near complete scripts, anecdotes, and actors for speci c Cinema
and Entertainment Television programs is vital among the Telling Vision.
Many religious items of the faith require either being a priest or having an
extensive knowledge of the pre-fall Scriptures. This Lore is not only used
primarily to research details of pre-fall TV entertainment mediums, but also
used to operate or create many Telling Vision speci c items. This Lore DOES NOT
allow an individual to research details of historic events, news, or cultural
phenomena that would otherwise be covered under another Lore.
Lore – History: Fictional Literature
    Finding pre-fall literature is an extremely rare stroke of luck.
Fortunately for the culture of the Strains, many of the stories of the past
were translated to a spoken tradition.  Fictional tales that once were held
in massive tomes were simpli ed and adjusted to match the world of the post-
apocalypse. However, for the individual who is looking to  nd references in the
morality and characters of Fictional Literature, unearthing the original details
of a story is more of a process. With the application of the Educated research
Skill, a character with this Skill can search for names, places, and key story
points of pieces of Fictional Literature. While this Skill may seem to lack in
value, many people in the Wastelands are named after ancient tales and stories.
Occasionally knowing the history of an enemy’s name means to truly understand an
enemy.

207
 Lore – History: Music
    Music is a universal language that has been communicated via sound,
recorded onto devices, as well as transcribed into tablature.  Knowing the
history of music allows a player to research details of the performers that
produced the music, the instruments that the music was performed on, as well
as some of the key cultural references that are being made in the music that
is being performed. While this Lore, like any other, does not give a limitless
resource of names and music that spans the ages, this Lore will allow a player
to research key components to music. This Lore is key in the operation of many
Kings Court reliquaries and devices, as well as needed for plot purposes.
Lore – Medical: Diseases and Plagues
    This Lore allows a player to use the research aspect of the Educated Skill
to research the details, contagion conditions, symptoms, and means to cure most
Diseases and Plagues that can be contracted in the modern post-apocalypse.  This
Lore does not operate as a means to immediately cure all illnesses; however,
it does allow a player to research historical outbreaks to match symptoms to
current unknown conditions to  nd a cure.  At times this cure may involve use
of particular brewed, cooked, or crafted resources. At other times the cure may
involve an extensive knowledge (lore) of Diseases and Plagues with a certain
degree of applied medical skill. To identify, de ne, and answer questions about
these plagues and diseases a player must research the details of the plague or
disease via the Educated Skill.
Lore – Medical: Grave Mind Infection
    This Lore allows a player to research the progression of the Grave Mind’s
Infection via medical research on a subject.  While it can be assumed that most
Strains only have a limited number of times they may pass through the Grave
Mind before they are unable to be reanimated as anything more than a zombie,
occasionally the Grave Mind can cause a situation where an extra degree or
lesser degree of infectious change can occur.  In addition to being able to
research the processing of the infection in individuals, this Lore allows a
player the ability to research and have a greater degree of understanding into
the processes and results of the death to rebirth cycle that Strains have when
they pass through the Grave Mind.
Lore – Medical: Grave Robber Processes
    This Lore is most commonly possessed by Grave Robbers, as a means to
understand and research the details of work that they or another Grave Robber
has done to a physical specimen (outline under the Gene Splicer skill).  This
Lore is required for usage of many Grave Robber speci c tools and medical
templates in addition to its ability to open avenues for research.
Lore – Metallurgy
    This Lore allows the user to research the means and way in which alloys
are produced.  This Lore is primarily used in a large number of engineering
mechanical devices and processes that take ores, named Scraps, and Gizmos to
produce new unique named Scrap and Gizmos that are used in crafting.  This Lore
primarily is a requirement for processes, and while may have selective use in
plot related resources, is limited in its scope of use outside of the usage of
metallurgy processes.
208

 Lore – Mining
    This Lore allows a player the ability to research information in regards
to underground tunnels, subterranean ore veins, artesian wells, basic geology,
and the structural engineering of creating a mine.  This Lore if often used in
conjunction with engineered Mine locations to produce unique Scraps, additional
Scrap, or used as a requirement for the operation of mining equipment.  While
this Lore alone is not enough to locate particular veins of materials before a
Mine is forged, this Lore often times is a requirement for the use of proper
engineered or tinkered tools that would dictate the kind of Mine to be crafted.
Lore – Mon Histories
    Mon Histories is a study of markings, cultural symbols, and heritage related
to the Genjian culture.  Where Mon Studies varies from a standard Strain Lore
is in the scope and application of the Lore.  Mon Histories may be used in
regards to research to track the family lineage of a Genjian by name, identify
the family name of Burster Zombie that are carrying markings of their prior life
(tattoos, family icons, weapons that are tied to family names).  The knowledge
and lore related to Mon Histories is a tool often used to bring peace to
surviving families that their fallen relatives no longer suffer as the undead.
Mon Histories is a Lore often required for a number of pieces of equipment that
are speci c to traditional Genjian combat and culture.
Lore – Nature: Herbs
    This Lore allows the user to research the kinds of Herbs that are seasonally
available locally, how rare particular Herbs are to scrounge, as well as
identify what Herbs are indigenous to particular areas of the wasteland by
using the research ability of the Educated skill.  When a player researches a
particular Herb they may ask details such as ‘Where does this Herb grow?’, ‘What
season does the Herb grow in’, and ‘How rare is it to  nd unfarmed versions of
this Herb?’  To answer these questions the staff member may access the Scrap and
Herb resource list to  nd the answers to these questions.  The Lore of Nature:
Herbs does not allow a player to research uses of the Herb (such as prints and
brews).
Lore – Nature: Minerals and Re ned Materials
    This Lore allows the user to research the kinds of minerals and re ned
materials are seasonally available locally, how rare particular minerals and
re ned materials are to Scrounge, as well as identify what minerals and re ned
materials are indigenous to particular areas of the wasteland by using the
research ability of the Educated skill.  When a player researches a particular
minerals and re ned materials they may ask details such as ‘Where does this
minerals or re ned materials come from?’ ‘What season is this minerals or re ned
materials available?’ and ‘How rare is it to scrounge this minerals or re ned
materials?’  To answer these questions the staff member may access the Scrap and
Herb resource list to  nd the answers to these questions.  The Lore of Nature:
Herbs does not allow a player to research what areas produce particular Scraps,
minerals, and Gizmo cards by Blueprint process, but does allow a player to
identify locations from where particular Named Scraps originate.

209
 Lore - Pre-Fall History Ancient
This Lore allows the use the research option of the Educated Skill to investigate information from the ancient time period of the year 1600 – 1900. Information gained via this Lore is very generalized, with the majority of the details from the Pre-Fall having been lost with the death of humanity. It should
be noted that no Lore option exists from prior to the year 1600. This is due to
the fact that the vast majority of historical documentation, research materials,
and learned references have been lost. While this does not mean that ancient
relics are completely lost, in the incredibly rare instance that an individual is looking to research an item from before 1600 the dating and historic information on these items is based on the  ndings of pre-fall humans. The key difference in this mindset is that players researching prior to 1600 are not looking into details from the pre-1600 period, but instead are researching for the research that others had made. Not only does this offer an incredibly limited view of the pre-1600 world, but also offers a large degree of contrary theories. As an example, creationist museums, religious museums, and evolutionary museums all offer contrary information. This does not even take into consideration advances of science that have corrected prior historic errors (Brontosaurus as an example).
Lore - Pre-Fall History Cultural
This Lore allows the use of the research option of the Educated Skill to investigate cultural trends, popular culture, artwork, architecture, and political culture of communities in the pre-fall environment. This Lore is restricted to  rst hand research from the year 1600 and forward. Any research into pre-1600 cultural trends requires the user of this lore to instead research the impressions that pre-1600 cultural trends have made on the more modern pre-fall culture. As
an example, while a player cannot research the popular culture of the ancient Egyptians pharaohs, a player can research the in uences of the ancient Egyptians in the artwork of the Art Deco movement. Information gained via this Lore is strictly restricted to the realms of impression, effect, and cultural response to trends. Researching details of events that have caused cultural responses requires Lore: Pre-Fall Ancient History.
Lore - Pre-Fall History Modern
This Lore allows the use the research option of the Educated Skill to investigate information from the time period of the year 1600 – 1900. Information gained via
this Lore is very generalized, with the majority of the details from the Pre-Fall having been lost with the death of humanity. Around the late 1900s, with the decline of the printed medium as a primary source of communication, researchable resources became much more dif cult for research and reference purposes. It is theorized that
a few hundred years of life did continue after the year 1900, however, the nature and quality of life during that period is nearly impossible to research. While occasional artifacts of music, culture, and structure has survived into the post-fall era the locating and compiling of early pre-fall history has been dif cult.
Lore - Pre-Fall History Religion
This Lore allows a player to use the research function of the Educated Skill to research details of religions that came and went before the fall of humanity. Many modern post-apocalyptic religions take inspiration and may even have genesis from
a number of these religious sources, it should be noted that pre-fall religions (real world religions) and the religions of the post-apocalypse (in-game religions) should be kept a good distance from one another. Forced implementation of real world religions into a game environment may cause sensitive subjects to arise. To prevent these issues, information gained via the Lore of Pre-Fall History Religion should only be used for academic and research purposes.
210

 Lore – Radiation
    This Lore allows a player to use the research function of the Educated
Skill to research details of the medical reactions, physical mutations, and
physical anomalies that occur in regards to radioactive exposure.  In addition
to the research that may be done in regards to how Radiation interacts with
its environment, a player may also at times utilize this Lore in the  eld
regarding particular radiation related plot materials.  Lastly, there are a
number of prints and materials that require Lore-Radiation as a means of use and
operation.
Lore – Raider
    This Lore allows players the ability to research information about different
Raider Clans via the research function of the Educated Skill.  This Lore allows
players access to a great deal of knowledge to the culture, identity, and nature
of the different Raider clans.  It should be noted that Raiders suffer from an
extensive and prolonged exposure to the Bad Brains virus, and are incapable of
being  xed, trained, or rehabilitated.  This fact is part of the reason why the
Bad Brain disease is so dangerous.
Lore – Slaver Communities
    This Lore allows a player to use the research ability of the Educated Skill
to track the general trade patterns, guidelines of captures, and condition
of sale within slaver communities.  This Lore allows a player to research the
estimated value of an individual (player character or non-player character) in
the eyes of a particular slaver market.  Market prices vary depending on the
demand, nature of the individual being stolen, as well as the unique nature
of the slave.  This Lore may also be uses as a means to track local Slaver
Communities, trade lines, and holding areas for freeing slaves and destroying
slavers.  Some slaver speci c equipment requires Lore- Slaver Community to
correctly operate.
Lore - Strain: Nation of Accensor
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
                                physicality, population density, strengths,
                                  and weaknesses of a particular Strain.  This
                                  Lore is often times used for researching
                                  lineages, identifying the physical needs of a
                                  Strain, identifying mutations or physiological
                                        responses that an individual of this
                                           strain is having to a particular
                                               stimulus, as well as being able
                                                   to research the local macro
                                                      activities of a Strain
                                                       (locations that have
                                                        a higher population
                                                       of a Strain, areas
                                                       that actively dislike a
                                                      Strain).  This Lore is
                                                    also a requirement for the
                                                   creation and crafting of
                                                  many strain speci c pieces of
                                                equipment, Brews, and meals.

211
 Lore - Strain: Baywalker
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this Strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, brews, and meals.
Lore – Strain: Diesel Jock
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore - Strain: Full Dead
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore - Strain: Geijian
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore - Strain: Iron Slave
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
212

 Lore - Strain: Lascarian
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore - Strain: Merican
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore - Strain: Natural One
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore - Strain: Pure Blood
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore – Strain: Reclaimers
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.

213
 Lore - Strain: Red Star
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore - Strain: Remnant
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore - Strain: Retrograde
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore - Strain: Rover
    This Lore allows a player to access information
in regards to the physicality, population density,
strengths, and weaknesses of a particular Strain.
This Lore is often times used for researching
lineages, identifying the physical needs of a
Strain, identifying mutations or physiological
responses that an individual of this strain
is having to a particular stimulus, as well
as being able to research the local macro
activities of a Strain (locations that have
a higher population of a Strain, areas
that actively dislike a Strain).  This
Lore is also a requirement for the
creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews,
and meals.
214

 Lore – Strain: Salt Wise
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore – Strain: Solestros
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore – Strain: Unborn of Têixiptla
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore - Strain: Vegasians
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.
Lore - Strain: Yorker
    This Lore allows a player to access information in regards to the
physicality, population density, strengths, and weaknesses of a particular
Strain.  This Lore is often times used for researching lineages, identifying the
physical needs of a Strain, identifying mutations or physiological responses
that an individual of this strain is having to a particular stimulus, as well as
being able to research the local macro activities of a Strain (locations that
have a higher population of a Strain, areas that actively dislike a Strain).
This Lore is also a requirement for the creation and crafting of many strain
speci c pieces of equipment, Brews, and meals.

215
 Lore - Tech: Combustion Power
    This Lore allows players the ability to research community or project
needs for power provision, related to combustion power, via the research
ability of the Educated Skill.  While this skill does not provide Blueprints or
instructions to create motors or engines, this Lore is very useful in regards
to determining what is needed for a community to power itself as well as what
power supply is needed for particular resources.  This Lore is also often a
requirement for use operation of many large combustion engines.
Lore - Tech: Natural Power
    This Lore allows players the ability to research community or project needs
for power provision, related to natural power, via the research ability of
the Educated Skill.  Natural Power is outlined as thermodynamic power, water
turbine power, and wind turbine power.  Most solar power, beyond the most
rudimentary and basic heating elements, is outside the technical knowledge level
of post-apocalypse survivors.  While this Skill does not provide Blueprints or
instructions to create motors or engines, this Lore is very useful in regards
to determining what is needed for a community to power itself as well as what
power supply is needed for particular resources.  This Lore is also often a
requirement for use operation of many large natural power sources such as
hydroelectric dams, wind farms, and thermal heaters.
Lore - Tech: Nuclear Power
    This Lore allows players the ability to research community or project needs
for power provision, related to the most rudimentary of nuclear power, via the
research ability of the Educated Skill.  While this Skill does not provide
blueprints or instructions to create motors or engines, this Lore is very useful
in regards to determining what is needed for a community to power itself as
well as what power supply is needed for particular resources.  This Lore is also
often a requirement for use operation of many nuclear power sources such as
steam turbine nuclear reactors.
Lore – Zombie
    This Lore allows a player with the research ability via the Educated Skill
to research information about different forms of zombies.  This Lore includes
looking into local mutations and variants of undead, basic classi cations of
the type of zombies that exist, as well as the ability to identify trends and
abortions in local zombie activity.  This Lore does not give you the extensive
information that spending the time to do an up-close creature analysis will
provide.  This Lore is required for a number of tools that involve the
operation, manipulation, and dissection of the undead.
216

 Restricted Lores
The following Lore Skills are only available via Advanced Profession, and may not be learned without the appropriate Advanced Profession skills. These Lores may never be accessed by items or given details about without having the Skill. These Skills represent a profound understanding of complex intellectual subjects that require extensive lifetimes of study. Most Advanced Profession speci c Skills are requirements for the crafting, use, and design of blueprints via Advanced Profession skills.
Lore - Techno Savant: Complex Electronics
    This Techno Savant Lore allows a player to use the research function of the
Educated skill to research electronic devices built by other Techno Savants.
Researching this way could allow a Techno Savant to answer questions such as
what a device does, how long a device will last, the amount of resources that
are needed create a complex electronic device, or the name of the Techno Savant
that created these unique creation.  Any Techno Savant created device which
involves complex electronics and electrical systems will require this Lore to
operate.  Devices created that require this Lore still do not compare to modern
year 2000+ technologies.
Lore - Techno Savant: Doomsday Device
    This Techno Savant Lore allows the Techno Savant to use the research
function of the Educated Skill to research certain details of Doomsday Devices
that the Techno Savant is personally aware of.  This research could include who
created a particular Doomsday Device, how mobile said device is, the overall
destructive effect of the device, how to stop a Doomsday Device (not all of them
have a self-destruct button), and how to operate a Doomsday Device.  Any Techno
Savant print that involves the creation of a massively destructive device will
require the Doomsday Device Lore to create the device as well as to operate the
device.  Devices created that require this Lore still do not compare to modern
year 2000+ technologies.
Lore - Techno Savant: Tesla Electronics
    The difference between the Techno Savant lore of complex electronics and
the lore of Tesla Electronics is the difference between Edison and Tesla.  If
you do not know the difference between Tesla and Edison, you should read about
both Tesla and Edison before continuing to play or considering playing a Techno
Savant.  The Techno Savant Lore of Tesla Electronics allows a player to use the
research option of the Educated skill to research details in regards to subjects
such as Radios, X-Rays, Tesla Coils, Arc Electricity, Wireless Powering, and
Direct Energy Weapons.  This Lore also covers most subjects that involve sending
electricity from point A to point B without a conduit line.   Any Techno Savant
print that involves the creation of an alternating current or direct transfer
electric current device will require the Tesla Electronics Lore to create the
device as well as to operate the device.  Devices created that require this Lore
still do not compare to modern year 2000+ technologies.

217
 Lore - Techno Savant: Esoteric Cultural Anomalies
    The Lore of Esoteric Cultural Anomalies allows a player to use the research
function of the Educated Skill to be able to research the forefront scienti c
knowledge of speci c cultures in their area.  This Lore allows a player to
research details such as the processes that the Iron Works uses for the creation
of Railroad Cars, the means that the Engineers of Old York use to keep the
buildings standing, how the Vegasians are able to make the rare neon light, and
how the oil barrens of the Lone Star pump the fuel out of the ground.
      This Lore focuses on the sciences and technologies that very few
individuals know, but are the backbone of the continuation of a culture.
Devices that relate speci cally to the locally produced resources of a speci c
area will require the lore of Esoteric Cultural Anomalies to
create or to operate.  Devices created that require this Lore
still do not compare to modern year 2000+ technologies.
Lore - Medicine: Biological Warfare
The Lore of Biological Warfare allows a player
to use the research function of the Educated Skill
to be able to research details into existing
biological warfare agents, the remedies and
triggers for said agents, as well as the means
in which the agent could be distributed into
the local area. Any Techno Savant crafting
prints or devices which distribute agents of
biological warfare will require the Biological
Warfare lore for the creation or crafting of the device. Devices created this way still do not
compare to modern year 2000+ technologies.
Lore - Tech: Structural Anomalies
    The Lore of Structural Anomalies allows a player to use the research
function of the Educated Skill to be able to research details into existing
structures, rooms augmentations, and potential defenses of a structure.  The
Structural Anomalies Lore is required whenever a Techno Savant is using
blueprints to craft or operating special functions of room augmentation devices.
Some samples of these devices include death traps, hidden rooms, disguised work
spaces, and unique operations bases.  Devices created that require this Lore
still do not compare to modern year 2000+ technologies.
Lore - Tech: Gizmos
    Nearly any Tinker with a piece of Scrap and a screwdriver can make run of
the mill Gizmos, however it takes a Techno Savant to make miracle devices that
operation in the palm of your hand.  The Lore of Gizmos allows a player to use
the research function of the Educated Skill to do research in regards to unique
hand held devices.  While most crafters understand basic designed materials,
the Techno Savant with Lore Gizmos is able to research details in regards to
custom-made hand held devices.  In addition, whenever a Techno Savant is using
blueprints to craft a unique hand held device of high precision nature, the
crafting of that item as well as the operation of that precision Gizmo may
require the use of this Lore.  Devices created that require this Lore still do
not compare to modern year 2000+ technologies.
218

 Introduction to Psionics
Apsion is an aberrant mutation in the wastelands that is capable of applying their mind to cause massive changes in their environment. If it were not for the cultural and theoretical connections between Psions and the infection within us, Psions might be seen as a boon to the growing strains of society.
However, it has been proven to the best of post-apocalyptic capacity that
Psions are more than just people with unique talents. Some of the greatest minds in Grave Mind to strain interaction have been able to prove that an area’s Grave Mind and undead activity is directly related to the number of Psions in an area, and the potency of those Psions.
When traveling across the wastelands it is not uncommon to come across roving hordes of undead, seemingly focused on heading in the general direction of a settlement. This occurrence initiated a series of studies in regards to the physiology of the undead zombie, and what truly attracts the undead to an area.
The investigation determined that the undead, as a whole, rely on some sort of subconscious psionic link to communicate the location of food sources. Considering that many undead lack the physical components to respond to outside stimulus (at times lacking eyes, ears, or even a central nervous system) it was not a complete shock to those performing studies on the undead to  nd that the undead share a form of psionic link of undead consciousness. While this link is so passive that the connection doesn’t cause most undead to be considered ‘psionic’, or to react to stimulus that effect Psions, it does cause the undead to be drawn to particular areas. While this link will not have a zed turn left instead of right when entering into a room, or allow most undead to see beyond camou age or individuals skilled at hiding, it does allow zombies to know what areas other zombies have interacted with food sources and what are heavily psionic active areas.
The revelation that there was a connection between the undead allowed steps
to be made forward in regards to the existence of the Grave Mind, the experiences that those that die have within the Grave Mind, the ‘echoing voices’ that Full
Dead often suffer from, the connection of undead psionic links, and the existence of psionic abilities within certain Strains. What was theorized, and to a limited degree con rmed, was that the Grave Minds as physical entities worked as a sort of mental router for the psionic connection of the undead. As an unliving host that receives and processes limited stimuli from the connected undead, the Grave Minds are a series of networking creatures that connect the undead and the ‘infection’ carrying strains via a latent psionic connection. This connection seems to exist slightly higher in those considered ‘priests’ and capable of performing miracles of faith. The connection that the Grave Mind has in regards to active psionic strains is MEASURABLY higher.
The experiment was simple. A community of just under 100 people were gathered, who were not Psions. For the duration of a year, the activities of the undead attracted to the area as well as outbreaks of Grave Mind related anomalies recorded. In the one year period, just under 300 undead were attracted to the area, most of which were in a few hordes that seemed to have been drawn to the area on route to another location.

219
 Five individuals were removed from the community experiment, and in turn, were replaced with 5 Psions of differing mental capacities. Within the  rst two months of recorded time, nearly 600 undead were counted. In addition to the increased volume of undead threats, Raider tribes (those with heavily infected minds) began being drawn to the area. Lastly, within 6 months of the community’s continued existence, abnormalities in regards to the Grave Mind activity began to occur.
The 5 Psions, just four months into the experiment, were removed from the community. Within three months after removing the Psions the abnormalities in regards to undead attraction began to subside, and slowed to a trickle.
While these experiments are not known to the entire world as written fact, rumors and accusations of Psions being the reason for a great deal
of suffering have taken root in many communities of the wastelands. Many faith organizations actively seek out Psions for execution or experimentation, depending on their doctrine. This has caused most Psions to have to live in a society where they hide what they are, and who they are, from the populace as a whole for their own survival.
Psionics are an INCREDIBLY powerful tool, but with that come some very large drawbacks. In the hopes of removing Psions from communities as a whole, a number of organizations have come into existence that focus on killing Psions ‘for the greater good’. A number of tools have been created, using items like psionic resonance crystals and particular poisons, to hunt down and slaughter Psions. Psions exist with great power, but will always live a life where people want them destroyed just for the way they were born.
Players considering playing a
Psion should consider these details
before choosing to play a Psion
character. There are large numbers
of player-characters and non player-
characters that will seek out to kill
Psion characters. When an area becomes
inundated with a large number of psionicAdvanced Psionic Powers capable people, the undead threat as
well as the direct threat of the Grave
Mind becomes signi cantly larger. When
individuals use psionic powers (because
they are not subtle) there is the very
real threat that someone will witness
the usage of psionic powers and harm the
character using psionics.
220

List of Psionic Powers
Basic Psionic Powers
    Jolt
    Limited Telekinesis
    Memory Lapse
    Mind Push
    Nightmare
    Paralysis
    Pyro
    Seeing Double
    Slowed Steps
    Toys in the Attic
    Tranquility
    Trickster’s Mind
Intermediate Psionic Powers
    Berserker Mind
    Body Lock
    Body of Mind
    Body Puppet
    Echoes
Engulf
Living Death
Major Telekinesis
Propulsion
Psionic Surgeon
Sense of Sins
Whisper Walk
Maelstrom
Mental Armor
Mental Glossary
Mind of a Killer
Mind Shield
Psychic Cleanse
Sundered Mind
 Psionic Skill List
Using Psionic Skills
Unless speci cally noted in the mechanics of the speci c psionic Skill,
all psionic Powers are activated by declaring the name of the Power before interacting with their target. All psionic effects are considered visible, and very obviously psionic in nature. Psionic powers require a great deal of mental focus and the Psion must “cool down” after each activation, so psionic Skills can only be activated once every 3 seconds, requiring a silent three-count between activations.
Basic Psionic Skills
Jolt
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 5 Mind Points, declaring
“Jolt, Heal 2” and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white packet), the
Psion causes a target to experience a sudden burst of regeneration, immediately
regaining 2 Health.
Limited Telekinesis
This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 5 Mind Points and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white packet), the Psionic may call, “Telekinesis: Disarm!” The ranged psionic attack (white packet) does not need to strike the disarmed weapon or shield, but instead can land anywhere on the body. The Disarmed object must follow results and restrictions for the Skill Disarm.
Memory Lapse
This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 5 Mind Points, calling “Memory Lapse, forget last 5 minutes!” and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white packet), the Psion may cause a target to forget the last 5 minutes of their life. Having 5 minutes of memory removed is disorienting, and detectable if an individual’s perception of the environment has changed in 5 minutes (different location, different point of view, different people around, etc). While an individual that has been effected by Memory Lapse will not remember what details have been removed from the past 5 minutes, it is not uncommon for targets to realize that chunks of their memory is missing. Users of Memory Lapse may not pick and choose what items are forgotten, nor lessen the full 5 minute duration of memory loss. Memory Lapse may not be used on a character currently in Bleed Out.
Mind Push
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 5 Mind Points, calling
“Knockback, 10 paces!” and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white packet),
the Psion may cause a target to be thrown 10 steps away from the Psion (or until
they collide with something that stops their backwards motion such as a tree,
ledge, or wall).  In the instance that someone effected by Mind Push is stopped,
that character should still stagger the remaining paces instead or count the
remaining paces as a delay (non-mechanical stun) before returning.

221
 Nightmare
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 5 Mind Points, calling
“Nightmare, run away 1 minute” and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white
packet), the Psion may cause a target to run in terror for 1 minute.
Paralysis
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 5 Mind Points, calling
“Paralyze, 5 seconds!” and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white packet),
the Psion may cause a target to be frozen and unable to move for 5 seconds or
until they receive damage.
Pyro
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 5 Mind Points, calling
“5 Fire!” and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white packet), the Psion may
in ict 5 points of  re damage.
Seeing Double
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 5 Mind Points, calling
“Seeing Double, skill costs doubled 30 seconds!” and engaging in a ranged
psionic attack (white packet), for 30 seconds the target’s Skills cost double
Mind Points to use.  This Skill does not stack, and a target may be under the
effects of only one use of this psionic power.
Slowed Steps
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 5 Mind Points, calling
“Slow, half speed for 30 seconds!” and engaging in a ranged psionic attack
(white packet), the Psionic may cause a target to move at a slow walking speed
for 30 seconds.  This Skill does not slow the movement of arms, or use of Skills
that do not augment or change the movement of the effected target.
Toys in the Attic
    This Skill is countered by Mind
Resist. By spending 5 Mind Points,
calling “Toys In the Attic, no
aggressive action, 1 minute!” and
engaging in a ranged psionic attack
(white packet), the Psion may cause
a target to become preoccupied with
their own thoughts and unable to
initiate aggressive action.
For 1 minute a target of this
Skill cannot voluntarily
engage in combat nor will
they pursue  eeing enemies,
though they may still defend
themselves by using defensive
Skills (Skills that do not
cause damage or effects to
others).
222

 Tranquility
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 5 Mind Points, calling
“Tranquility!” and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white packet), the Psion
may cause a target to feel no pain and quiet their restless mind. Any fear or
terror effects on the target are immediately ended (though they are not immune
to later attacks), and the target may ignore all derangements and Mangled limb
effects for 5 minutes. Regular damage still takes effect and the target may
enter Bleed Out or even die, though they still do not register pain. Tranquility
does not suppress the effects of Sundered Limb, only Mangle Limbs.
Trickster’s Mind
    By spending 1 minute in intense concentration and 5 Mind Points, you enter
a state of remarkable guile for 15 minutes. During this time, the Charisma skill
requires only 2 minutes of conversation to use, the skills Lie and Charisma cost
half the usual amount for you (round up), and those wishing to use Cheat or
Check Your Sleeves against you must pay double the normal amount. Use of this
Skill does not need to be declared. This Skill may only be used by a Psion on
themselves unless equipment states otherwise.
Intermediate Psionic Skills
Berserker Mind
This Skill is countered by Mind Resist, if person receiving bene t of Berserker Mind wishes to resist. This ability allows the Psion to delay what should be crippling attacks for a time. By spending 10 Mind Points the target character can ignore all Skill effects and call ‘DELAY’ – so Sever is delayed, but not normal weapon swings – for 30 minutes after the use of this ability. After the 30 minutes have passed, the delay ends and all Skills and effects that were used take effect at once. They cannot be reduced or resisted in any way. This Skill does not block effects that target equipment, and all Skill-based healing effects fail for the duration of Berserker Mind. A target may not receive the bene ts of Berserker Mind again for at least 1 hour after it ends. Berserkers Mind does not end when a character under its effects enters Bleed Out.
Body Lock
This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 10 Mind Points, calling “Body Lock, cannot move 1 minute or until harmed!” and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white packet), the Psion renders a target unable to move for 1 minute or until wounded.
Body of Mind
This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 10 Mind Points, declaring “Body of Mind, regain 10 Mind Points” and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white packet) to lend their will, the Psion may cause a target to immediately regain 10 Mind Points.
Body Puppet
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 10 Mind Points, “Body
Puppet, switch friends and enemies, 1 minute!” and engaging a ranged psionic
attack (white packet), the Psion may cause a target to view friends as enemies
and enemies as friends for 1 minute. Note that this does not compel a target to
attack; they may instead choose to run if they are suddenly outnumbered.

223
 Echoes
    By spending 10 Mind Points and spending 10 minutes in meditation, the Psion
can feel the presence of those who attempt to hide themselves from sight for 1
full hour. This ability does not negate the use of stealth skills or identify
who is hidden but instead allows the knowledge that people using stealth Skills
are present.  During the duration of the 1 full hour, usage of the Alert Skill
by an individual using the Echoes power is reduced to 1 mind point.  This Skill
is primarily used by Psions that work with stealthy individuals, so they know
when their partners come and go. This skill may only be used by a Psion on
themselves, unless equipment states otherwise.
Engulf
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 10 Mind Points, calling
“10 Fire!” and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white packet), the Psion may
cause a target to erupt into  ames, taking 10 points of  re damage.
Living Death
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 10 Mind Points,
declaring “Living Death, 20 Body to undead!” and engaging in a ranged psionic
attack (white packet), the Psionic may cause an Undead target to take 20 points
of Health damage. This damage does apply to Full Dead as well as all forms of
zombies, but not against the living.
Major Telekinesis
    This skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 10 Mind Points,
gesturing at and naming their target, the Psion may call, “Major Telekinesis:
Disarm ‘There’!”  ‘There’ may be a location gestured at or described in two or
three words within ten paces from where the object was disarmed. Objects moved
in this way must follow restrictions of effect as outlined by the Skill Disarm.
Propulsion
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist.  By spending 10 Mind Points, calling
“Knockback, 20 paces!” and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white packet),
the Psion may cause a target to be knocked back 20 paces.
Psionic Surgeon
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 10 Mind Points, 1 minute
focusing, and engaging in a ranged psionic attack (white packet), the Psion may
soothe all derangements of their target for the next 2 hours.
Sense of Sins
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 10 Mind Points and
engaging a target in conversation for at least a minute, the Psionic can then
declare “Sense of Sins” and compel a target to confess all ‘sins’ of the past
month. This confession lasts for 1 full minute and includes all killing,
torture, theft, law-breaking, and acts of violence regardless of the target’s
personal moral compass. The target is aware of their confession when it is over,
though they cannot run away or stop the confession while it is in progress.
224

 Whisper Walk
    This Skill is countered by Alert. By spending 10 Mind Points the user
immediately becomes invisible to the naked eye, allowing them to raise the
invisible symbol. Interacting with the environment or someone using the Alert
Skill causes this Skill to come to an end. This Skill requires unrestricted
movement to use, so this Skill may not be used if under the effects of Nail
or other effects that hinder movement (Mangled legs, Binds on legs, etc.).
This Skill may only be used by a Psion on themselves unless equipment states
otherwise.
Advanced Psionic Skills
Maelstrom
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 15 Mind Points,
declaring “Maelstrom, 20 Fire!” and gesturing with an open palm, a cone of  re
erupts from the Psion’s hand. Anyone within a 5 foot reach and a 90 degree arc
of catches  re, taking 20 points of  re damage.
Mental Armor
    By spending 15 Mind Points and 10 minutes in meditation, the Psion can
attune the energy  eld around their body so that hostile assaults lose momentum
and each melee or brawling strike received does 2 less damage for 1 full hour.
Ranged attacks and psionic powers are unaffected by this skill. To signify use
of this Skill a white glowstick must be worn and visible around the neck/chest
area of the Psion.  The glow stick or light may not be hidden, and must be
visible in plain sight.  This Skill may only be used by a Psion on themselves
unless equipment states otherwise.

225
 Mental Glossary
    By spending 15 Mind Points and focusing for 10 minutes, the Psion gains
access to any one of the following Skills for 30 minutes: Analyze Compound,
Analyze Creature, Check Quality, Check Status, or Check Value. Mind Point
expenditures and other requirements listed under these Skills must still be
met for per use.  This Skill may only be used by a Psion on themselves unless
equipment states otherwise.
Mind of a Killer
    By spending 15 Mind Points and focusing for a 10 minutes, the Psionic gains
access to any one of the following Skills for 30 minutes: Backstab, Blinding,
Choking Blow, or Fade in a Crowd. Mind Point expenditures and other requirements
listed under these Skills must still be met for per use. During the duration
of Mind of a Killer all attacks with the appropriate use of ‘backstab’ do 5
additional points of damage. The Psionic gains the derangement ‘Sociopath’ while
this Skill is active.  This Skill may only be used by a Psion on themselves
unless equipment states otherwise.
Mind Shield
    By spending 15 Mind Points and spending 10 minutes in meditation, the
Psion can attune their mind so that the psionic assaults of others are rendered
useless against them for 30 minutes. When psionic effects are used against
a target with Mind Shield they must respond to all psionic effects with ‘No
effect, Mind Shield’. This effect also ignores all would be ‘helpful’ effects
such as Jolt or Body of Mind.
Psychic Cleanse
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 15 Mind Points and
analyzing a character through 30 minutes of verbal roleplay, the Psionic may
remove a permanent derangement from a character. Derangements that are gained
via professions or Advanced Professions are not lost, however, but instead are
simply subdued for 2 hours. If Psychic Cleanse is used on a character who has
gained a permanent derangement from an Advanced Profession, at their option
the character with the derangement may choose to go to Logistics to roll for a
different randomly generated derangement to replace the Permanent derangement
that the psionic was attempting to cure.
Sundered Mind
    This Skill is countered by Mind Resist. By spending 15 Mind Points, calling
“Sundered Mind, 30 Body!” and engaging a ranged psionic attack (white packet)
the Psion may in ict 30 damage of pure mental trauma on their target.
226

 How Your Character Grows With Experience
Character Growth & Learning New Skills
For those of you experienced in the world of gaming, Experience Points are in no way a foreign idea. I am willing to bet that new gamers, if you looked at the term, you could  gure out the gist of what Experience Points are.
    Experience Points are a numerical system that is assigned to a character to
represent your potential for growth as a character. A simple idea if you think
about it– people learn to do things, but there is only so much they can learn at
a time. So you have to assign your points to what you want to learn during the
duration of game.
    While Experience Points are a game mechanic, that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t
view them as a roleplaying opportunity too. Examine the lists that are available
to your character and see what makes the most sense for them to learn, based on
what they have survived and what they most desire to know. Don’t worry about
always being ‘practical’ with your choices– while survival skills are important
in the dangerous world of Dystopia Rising, if all you do is focus on pure
survival, you may  nd yourself without much to do outside of combat.
    But before you can spend your points, you have to know how many you get.
Experience points are awarded in different categories, so we will look at them
one at a time.
Base Experience Points
    Every time you pay to come to an event you get base experience for that
event. Base experience is a sliding scale that represents the bell curve of
growth. Here is a simple chart to determine how much base experience you get:
Events 1-5: A character gets 4 Experience Points. Events 6-10: A character gets 2 Experience Points. Events 11+: A character gets 1 Experience Point.
    This experience chart only represents the minimum points you receive for a
weekend. There are four other actions that can also earn you Experience Points.
Buying Missed Events
    If you miss one of your home events, you can pay for the event you missed
to get the experience points from that event.  The experience points you get are
based on basic event attendance; however, you do not get many of the advantages
of actually attending an event.  You may not trade in Assistance Points or
creature comfort cards as if you were at that event, nor may you buy events for
your character that pre-date your characters existence.  You may only back buy
events for your home game, and in the instance that you have transferred your
character from one branch to another, you may only buy back to the  rst event at
your new branch.

227
 Buying Extra Points
    Every time you come to an event you can purchase up to two additional
Experience Points for that event. These extra points are immediately added to
your sheet for that event’s use. Extra points purchased this way apply to only
one character.
Converting Assistance Points to Build
    At your characters home branch you may, upon check-in, convert 10 assistance
points into 1 build to a maximum of 2 per active and paid for character.
Creature Comfort Cards
    During a game a player may come across pink ‘creature comfort’ cards. These
cards represent items of exceptional quality, luxury, and rarity that improve
the life of the person who has them. During an event, a player may turn in 5
creature comfort cards at Logistics to be awarded an additional Experience
Point.
Character Death or Retirement
    If a character dies its  nal death or a character is retired, 50% of that
character’s existing experience points rounded up may be carried over to a new
character to a maximum of 50 experience points. These build points can not
be spent at the creation of the new character, but become available once the
character enters play. All weapons, item cards, blueprints, and  nances must
be turned in. All transferred experience points must be spent as per normal
experience points, and cannot be spent prior to entering game.
    All retired characters become the property of the story telling staff to
use at their discretion.  Retired characters may not be portrayed by non-staff
members as NPCs, without speci c guidelines and approval being provided by the
branch Director.
228

 Spending Your Experience Points
    Now we move onto the process of spending your Experience Points.
At an event weekend, you have so many Experience Points that you can spend. Experience Points may be spent on your characters Health, Mind, Skills, Professions, Profession Concentrations, Advanced Profession, and Advanced Profession Skills.
When a player wants to invest Experience Points into their Mind or Health ratings, they may expend Experience Points on a 1 to 1 ratio for Mind or Health. When spending Experience Points on Mind or Health, a player should spend 10 minutes roleplaying doing physical training for every Experience Point that is spent into Health. For every Experience Point that is spent into Mind, the player spending the Experience Points should spend 10 minutes roleplaying working on mental focus, conditioning, and mental stamina. Routines such as spending time in a library, learning from Educated characters, attending classes, or working out limits of mental capacity are all different examples in regards to how to roleplay this growth. After the Experience Points have been spent, and the roleplay has been completed, the player should record this Experience Point expenditure on the front of their sheet. This increased pool of Mind or Health becomes available to the player after the next 12s.
To spend Experience Points to learn a Skill, you must  rst determine if the Skill is listed on your Strain List, your Profession List, or the Open List. If the Skill is listed on your Strain List, all you need do is spend twenty minutes per point of the Skill roleplaying  guring out the Skill. You then can sign off on your sheet that you have ‘self-taught’ the Skill, and purchase the skill at the point cost listed in your Strain section.
If you are looking to learn a Skill from either your Profession List or the Open List, you must  nd a teacher for that Skill. Both player character and non-player characters may be persuaded to teach you Skills. A teacher needs to have the Skill you want, the Teach or Instruct Skill, and be willing to spend the requisite time role playing teaching you a new Skill. The only Skills you are capable of learning are the ones listed on your Profession List, your Strain List, and the Open Skill List. If a Skill is listed multiple times on your available lists, you pay the lowest cost.
When you are done learning your new Skill, the person teaching you must write the Skill name as well as write their player number and sign the ‘learned Skill’ line. Once you have learned a Skill, the Experience Points needed to learn the Skill are spent.
If you do not have the points available, or are taught a Skill that you cannot learn, the Teacher cannot sign off on your sheet. You have not expended the Experience Points to learn this Skill, and you may move on to learn other things. However, if you have been taught a Skill, have spent the points, and have had the Teacher sign off on your sheet- at the next Twelves you will be able to use that Skill!
It is also possible to learn a second and third Profession as well. To learn a new Profession, you must  nd a teacher who has that Profession. You must then spend ten Experience Points and 30 minutes roleplaying learning the new Profession. The teaching process does not have to happen all at once; however, the total amount of learning time must be completed before the Twelves (before the noon or midnight resets).

229
     Once a new Profession is learned, all Skills available on each Profession
List are open to be learned starting your next event. The lowest cost of
all available lists prevails, however there is no reimbursement for prior
expenditures.
    Profession Concentrations are an additional way to expand your characters
growth as time goes on. Unlike other Skills and abilities, profession
concentrations are not available to a player until after the players Directors
have had the chance to do a full character sheet audit on your character.  Once
the full character sheet audit is complete, a player may spend 1 hour roleplay
trying to re ne their Skills in a particular profession to meet the spirit and
theme of the Profession Concentration they are choosing.  After completing the
roleplay, and recording the expenditure of 30 Experience Points into buying
a Profession Concentration, the player will have access to those Skills the
following month after the Experience Point expenditure.  Just to be clear a
player should request the audit the month prior to spending the experience
points, wait for an approval, spend the experience points the following month
at game, and then they will have access to the Profession Concentration and the
linked Skills the following month.
    There are also Advanced Professions in play that a character can learn if
they meet the prerequisites of that profession,  nd a teacher, apply for the
Advanced Profession through the council of STs, and be taught the Profession
over a three month period. At the end of each months teaching an Advanced
Profession teacher must provide a signed ST Item Card that states they have
taught the Advanced Profession on the student’s sheet, and which lesson number
they have taught (1, 2, or 3). Each teaching session must be a minimum of
45 minutes of roleplay, and each Advanced Profession teacher may only teach
their Advanced Profession once a year. Advanced Profession teachers may only
have one student per year, however they may abandon a student who is failing
(or not attending) in order to teach another. Advanced Profession lessons may
not be divided out amongst multiple students, and a teacher taking on a new
student means that the old student’s tutorship has been abandoned (and must be
restarted). Advanced Profession lessons do not need to be three months in a row,
however, they do need to all occur within a 6 month period.
    Advanced Professions not only are dif cult to  nd and are ‘long term goals’
for characters, but also require a prolonged character investment. Advanced
Professions may only be learned after certain Experience Point criteria have
been achieved and are not guaranteed to be earned. Many times players have to
work for months or years to achieve an Advanced Profession. Advanced Professions
do not count towards the limit of three Professions, and a player may have up to
three Advanced Professions.
A character cannot have more than three Professions, however they can opt
to forget a Profession over time. If a character replaces a current Profession with a new Profession that character must pay 20 Experience Points for the new Profession, and can no longer buy Skills off of the lost list. All Skills on the lost list that do not exist on another list the character has are removed from the sheet and the points expended on these Skills are refunded. If a Profession is forgotten that is a prerequisite for another Advanced Profession that the character has, the primary Profession is forgotten as well as the Advanced Profession. All Skills purchased from the Advanced Profession List are lost, and no Experience Points are reimbursed for the Advanced Profession Skills.
230

 Forgetting a Profession and Retraining
    Life changes people, and sometimes, a survivor  nds themself needing to walk
away from their past life and open new doors to overcome the challenges ahead.
It is possible for a survivor to push aside years of training and forget the
secrets of their trades, letting skills fall into disuse, and make way for new
ventures, but that process is a dif cult one, and rarely embarked upon lightly.
    Removing a Profession from your character is not a simple process.  During
the time that you have played your character you have learned Professions,
Skills that are a part of that Profession, and used those Skills to get your
character to the point that they are at today.  By choosing to forget a
Profession, and deciding to retrain in a new direction, you are undergoing a
longer investment of experience points and growth than standardly learning a
Profession.  As they say, it is easier to learn something from scratch then to
forget what you have known and then in turn learn it all over again.
    With that in mind, if you do decide that you are going to remove a
Profession, the following things must occur.
1) The Profession removal must be done before you check into game. You cannot choose to forget a Profession once you have entered game.
2) You will spend 10 experience points to remove a current Profession. In doing so, the following recalculations occur:
A) You cannot pay to drop your Profession, if you only have one Profession.
B) Any Advanced Professions that you had, that required you to have a basic Profession as a base requirement, are lost. You are not refunded the experience points from lost Profession Concentrations, lost Advanced Professions and lost Advanced Profession Skills.
C) Any Skills that you had on the list that you are removing, that you do not have access to otherwise, will have their experience point cost refunded.
D) If you are losing a Skill from your existing list, and it is available on another list (including the Open list) you will pay the experience cost of that Skill. As an example, if the list you are forgetting has the skill Parry on it for 3, and you pay the 10 to lose the Profession list with Parry for 3, you will in turn HAVE to take Parry from the Open list unless it is available on another Profession you have.
E) You experience points will be recalculated with the 10 experience points spent to drop a Profession, the earned back experience points from lost Advanced Professions and Advanced Profession Skills, and recalculated to represent what additional expenditures you may have to make to cover new higher Profession costs.
3) After these calculations have been signed off by your Coordinating Director, you will be able to renter play with the remaining experience points.

231
 Since this process involves a large amount of recalculation of experience points, you may wish to contact your coordination staff with as much lead time
as possible before game. If you give your coordination team a few weeks advanced notice, they may be able to recalculate what your sheet would be before reentering play. If you wait until right before game, or wait until game itself, this process may take you a good amount of time and delay your entering into play.
Removing the Psionist List
Removing the Psionist list from your character sheet requires more effort than
a standard Profession list. Given that being a Psion is part training and part physical condition, the requirements for removing Psionist from your character sheet is as follows:
1) The player looking to remove Psionist from their character sheet must role-play 6 months of attempting to suppress their own psionic ability. This includes 6 consecutive months of not using ANY psionic abilities at all. A single use of a single psionic ability at any event restarts the 6 month requirement.
2) The player looking to remove Psionist from their character sheet must have the approval of their game Director to do so.
3) If approved, all further process for experience point recovery and cost follow the same as a standard character Profession removal.
Removing Guild Membership or Black Market Connections
When getting rid of a Profession list that has Guild Membership or Black Market Connections on it, the process for removing Guild Membership or Black Market Connections is slightly different than standard retraining. If a player decides to remove Black Market Connections or Guild Membership from their sheet, it is assumed that the character has had a large portion of their memory brutally removed. The memories that are removed include who other members of these organizations are, how they operate, what function these groups have served in the past, details from any meetings, as well as the retraining members former involvement with the group.
This does not allow a character to forget actions they
have taken BECAUSE of the group or organization (such as lying, theft, or murder) but it does remove the reasoning that the character had for committing these crimes.
Retraining out of a Profession to lose Guild Membership or Black Market Connections does not prevent members of those groups from taking action against the individual who trained out of particular Skill, and players looking to leave these organizations should expect severe repercussions for leaving.
232

 Assistance Points
Assistance Points are an expendable resource that a player earns for helping out a local game. Assistance points are awarded by Game Directors, Storytellers, Marshals, and any of cial member of the game operations team as a means of saying ‘thank you’ for going above and beyond the call of duty. Assistance Points
are awarded for additional NPC shifts, for exemplary community commitment, for additional setup and cleaning duties,  lling requested game donations, and many other forms of going above and beyond the requirements of a standard attendee.
    Assistance Points must be awarded by the individual that was present when
the duties were performed.  This means that if you are making donations to your
local branch, then you must have those donations signed off when you check in
and turn the items in.  If you are doing additional NPC duties or helping above
and beyond on an NPC shift, the Story Teller whose shift you are helping out on
must assign you the Assistance Points.
    Whenever you are given Assistance Points, there are three key pieces of
information that must be included with the assignment: the assigning staffer
member’s signature, the assigning staff member’s membership number, and the
reason why the assistance points were assigned.  If an assignment of Assistance
Points lacks these things, the player may not receive their well-earned points.
If you are receiving Assistance Points, it is in your best interests to make
sure these three items are on your sheet.
    There are restrictions in regards to how much staff members can give in
Assistance Points.  A Marshal may never assign more than 10 Assistance Points
to a player during an event.  A Storyteller may never assign more than 50
Assistance Points to a player during an event.  A Head Storyteller may never
assign more than 100 assistance points to a player during an event.  Any
Assistance Points assigned that go above 100 assigned Assistance Points need to
be approved by a Director.
    While at times more Assistance Points than the following guidelines can be
given, the following general guideline should be used for most Assistance Points
assignments.
Extra 4 hour NPC shift: 40 Assistance Points
Hour of Additional Assistance (setup, downtime work): 10 Assistance Points Donation of Props or Needed Materials: 1 Assistance Point per $1 donated Donation of Branch Organized Charities: 1 Assistance Point per $1 donated

233
 Spending Assistance Points
    Dystopia Rising is a community, and when the community goes above and beyond
we reward our members. Helping out above and beyond what is expected from you
can earn you points at an event, which will be added to your sheet for use come
the next month you come to game as your character. These points are awarded for
exceptional assistance, and not given out via request. Assistance points may be
cashed in at Check In for any of the following items:
10 Points – 1 Experience Point (no more than 2 per character per event)
50 Points – Additional Mind Point refresh (48 hour meal refresh card, max 2) 50 Points – Basic Brew (non-recipe brew)
75 Points – 3 Local Currency
75 Points – 3 Basic Scrap
75 Points – 3 Basic Herbs
150 Points – 3 Uncommon Herbs
150 Points – 3 Uncommon Scrap
150 Points - Uncommon Strain (see local branch for Uncommon Strains and
character creation section.)
250 Points – 3 Rare Herb
250 Points – 3 Rare Scrap
250 Points - 1 Named Scrap
250 Points - 1 Named Herb
250 Points - 1 Scrounge-able Gizmo
250 Points - 1 Produce (Unique or Standard Via Animal Handling)
300 Points - Rare Strain (see local branch for Rare Strains and character
creation section.)
400 Points - Choice of Basic Still, Forge, Basic Work Bench, Basic Kitchen, or
Printers Table.
6 month expiration date and requires prop
450 Points - Teacher for a basic Skill or basic Profession Extended Growth
    Beyond the ability to learn new Professions, Skills, and increase both your
mind and health pools, characters eventually may begin to look at the  eld of
Extended Growth. Extended Growth is when a character, after numerous years of
effort, begins to learn abilities and Skills that are not readily available to
most characters. The two  elds of Extended Growth are in the form of Profession
Concentrations and Advanced Professions.
    When a player reaches the listed growth requirements for either Profession
Concentration or an Advanced Profession, that player puts a written request
for consideration in to their directors.  Each branch will provide either a
form, or an email address, where requests may be submitted.  The consideration
process for these two forms of Extended Growth is vastly different. Profession
Concentrations do not require approval beyond having a character sheet audit
completed to ensure that a player is eligible for learning the requested
Profession concentration. With Advanced Professions, characters must have proven
themselves as an embodiment of what that Advanced Profession would be.  Most
people will not be approved for an Advanced Profession, so with this in mind, do
not be daunted if you are not awarded an Advanced Profession upon request (most
people are not).
234

 Profession Concentration
Profession Concentrations are different from Advanced Professions in multiple ways. While an Advanced Profession is a restricted Profession that most characters will not achieve, Profession Concentrations are the natural growth and evolution of Professions.
Profession Concentrations, if they were to be scaled, are between Advanced Profession and standard Professions in how common they are. Unlike Standard Professions and Advanced Professions, Profession Concentrations do not open a completely new tree of growth
for characters. Instead, each Profession Concentration provides 2 to 3 unique Skill modi cations that a player has access to as soon as they have access to their Profession Concentration.
Not every Skill in each Profession Concentration is going to be useful to each Profession that is available for those Profession Concentrations. While your character may produce resources as their primary focus, they may  nd that in the Civilized Profession Concentrations only one or two Skills are appropriate for what you are looking to do. Each Profession Concentration category is divided into three different divisions based on the three primary focuses found within that category, based on Professions and player choices to date. Within those primary focuses three Skills are available, wherein only one or two of those Skills may be right for you. If your character is hyper focused (multiple Skills and Srofessions) in the same style of play, you may  nd two to three of the Skills in each Profession Concentration to serve your needs.
Regardless, each player should decide the volume of investment they want to place into achieving a Profession Concentration verses how useful the individual skills are to them.
Rules for achieving a Profession Concentration
A character must have at least 200 experience points spent on their sheet prior to learning a profession Concentration.
A character must have at least 50 Health AND 50 Mind (including starting Health and Mind).
A character must have the prerequisite Professions to be eligible for a Profession Concentration.
A player must have their character sheet audited 1 month before intending to purchase a Profession Concentration by the coordination staff to ensure that all requirements have been ful lled.
Once a character has a Profession Concentration, they may not unlearn the Profession Concentration OR the required prerequisite professions needed for a Profession Concentration.
Profession Concentrations cost 30 experience points to purchase.
All skills within the Profession Concentration become available to the player for use the month after the Profession Concentration has been purchased.
Characters are restricted to 2 Profession Concentrations.
Profession Concentrations do not require a teacher or special approval beyond having being approved post character sheet audit.

235
 Combat Profession Concentrations
Profession Focus Requirements: Assassin, Guard, Gun Slinger, Hunter, Martial Artist, Of cer, Primitive, Pugilist, Sniper, Soldier, or Thug.
Agility Combatant Focus
Close the Distance
    Fighters that rely on quick strikes, quick hits, and speed have their
lives depend on controlling their location on the battle  eld.  Being able to
move into short range quickly is just as important as being able to get out
of  ghting range.  When using Close the Distance, the player using this Skill
may spend 20 Mind Points and loudly declare ‘Close the Distance.’  Once Close
the Distance is declared, the user of this Skill places their out-of-character
signal over their head and sprint up to 20 steps to a target person.  Once the
person using Close the Distance stops taking steps, has  ve seconds pass, or
reaches their target, the player drops their out-of-character signal.  When
Close the Distance is used, any of the following effects that the user is
currently under immediately come to an end: Berserkers Mind, Cover of Night,
Whisper Walk, and Fade in a Crowd.
Disengage
    Controlling the battle eld often is the difference between life and death
for the  ghter who relies on speed and positioning.  In the instance that the
character with the skill Disengage has had a melee strike parried, delayed, or
if the strike has ‘no effect,’ the character with this skill may immediately
spend 20 Mind Points and call ‘Disengage’.  The player using Disengage may put
the out-of-character symbol over their head, and take up to 10 steps away from
their target.  Once the person using Disengage stops taking steps or has  ve
seconds pass, the player drops their out-of-character signal.  Chase does not
prevent the use of Disengage, however, a character with at least one Mangled or
Severed leg may not use Disengage.  When Disengage is used if the player has
the Skills Cover of Night, Whisper Walk, or Fade in a Crowd, those Skills may
be spent for and activated while the Disengaged character is traveling out-of-
character.  These additional Skill uses have the standard restrictions and costs
related to use of those Skills.
Keen Eyes
    A character with the Agility Focus Combatant concentration has the ability
to be a stealth combatant’s worse enemy.  The Agility Focus Combatant with the
Keen Eyes skill can expend 20 Mind Points and call ‘By my voice, Alert!’  This
effect triggers on all targets, friendly and unfriendly, within the range of the
Keen Eyes Skill.
236

 Ranged Combatant Focus
Heavy Ordinance
    Allows for the use of Heavy Ordinance weapons.  Heavy Ordinance weapons are
produced with the Custom Modi cations skill via the Quality Producer Profession
Concentration.  Heavy Ordinance weapons are capable of using Skills linked with
both  rearms and thrown weapons assuming the user of this Skill has access to
the linked  rearm or thrown weapon Skill.  In addition, all Heavy Ordinance
weapons may use both Firearm and Bow Gizmos and custom ammo.  Heavy Ordinance
Physical Representations should be massive pieces of equipment that are marked
                with a bright yellow band, signifying that they may only be used
                 by an individual with the Heavy Ordinance skill.
                              Heavy Ordinance weapons should have the visual
                   appearance of monster weapon systems that utilize pulleys,
                    recoil systems, and oversized payload launchers.
Reloading is Stupid
                         When your life is determined by the guns you carry and
                  the bullets you  re, running out of ammunition can mean your
                   death.  Long Range Combatants with the Reloading is Stupid
                   skill may increase their total carried dart total from 20
                   darts to 50 darts that may be stored in multiple clips.  Long
                    Range Combatants using this Skill are still responsible for
                    policing their own brass (picking up their darts after a  re
                     ght).  In the instance that darts are found on the site by
                    staff members at the end of an event, those darts may be
                    returned to the player using this Skill via NPCs attempting
                     to assassinate the character in question.  All darts MUST
                     be marked with the characters player number.
Improvised Thrown Weapons
    Throwing weapons are items that have been balanced and designed in such
a way to either  y through the air like a dart, or to have a certain number
of rotations per yard to allow the weapon to land with its sharpened edge or
point in a target.  Throwing weapons effectively that are not designed to be
thrown is dif cult, and, requires a great amount of skill.  With the Improvised
Thrown Weapons Skill the character with a Range Combat Focus may improvise
thrown weapons.   When using Improvised Thrown Weapons, the user of this Skill
spends 10 Mind Points and 5 minutes roleplaying scrounging for improvised thrown
weapons.  The character using this Skill must not be Bound or be suffering
from Mangled/Severed arms.  After the 5 minutes of roleplaying and the 10 Mind
Points spent, the user of this Skill can pull out 10 Improvised Thrown Weapon
Physical Representation.  These improvised thrown weapons may be orange packets,
or, small improvised thrown weapon Physical Representations with an orange and
green stripe.  These Physical Representations are only usable by the individual
with Improvised Weapon, and is only usable for 10 minutes before the item are
no longer usable.  The improvised thrown weapon only does one damage, but can
be used as an appropriate thrown weapon or javelin weapon for skill use.  When
Improvised Weapon is not being used, the thrown physical representations should
be carried on the player but kept as out of sight as possible as to not disrupt
roleplay.

237
 Short Range Combat Focus
Pole-arm Weapon Mastery
    Allows for use of melee Two handed weapons that are 80 inches in length or
less.  These Melee weapons require 45 degree swings instead of 90 degree swings
due to the additional force that would be produced from the larger weapons.
These larger Two handed weapons must be marked with a bright yellow band,
signifying that they may only be wielded by an individual with Pole-Arm weapon
mastery.   Pole-arm Weapon Mastery weapons are produced via the Quality Producer
Skill: Made to Order.
Call for Phalanx
    Allows a shield wielding character to spend 20 Mind Points and call, ‘By My
Voice, Call for Phalanx!’  When Call for Phalanx is activated, up to 8 shield
wielding characters may form a box, circle, or line formation within 5 steps of
the user of Call for Phalanx.  For 10 minutes all shield wielding members of the
Phalanx, as long as they remain within 5 steps of the user of Call for Phalanx
and continue to wield their shields, may ignore all uses of Fear, Nightmares,
and *ALL* area effect or ‘By My Voice’ effects.  When ignoring the effects of
an attack or effect due to Phalanx, the defender must call ‘DEFENDED, PHALANX’
within 3 seconds of the attack being sounded.   Area effect damages include
all uses of Wide-Strike, psionic area effects, By my Voice attacks, and Area
Effect traps.  While Call for Phalanx is active, no members of the Phalanx may
move faster than a half time marching step.  If at any point during the use
of Call for Phalanx the user of Call for Phalanx is dropped into Bleed Out or
rendered asleep or unconscious Call for Phalanx immediately comes to an end.  It
is the responsibility of the individual using Call for Phalanx to ensure that
individuals joining in the use of the skill understand the restrictions and uses
of Call for Phalanx.   If any individuals that are a part of a use of Call for
Phalanx leaves the range of the Phalanx, the Skill immediately comes to an end.
Improvised Weapon
    Being skilled with many close range melee weapons often means being capable
to use most items as a weapon.  With this Skill, a Short Range Combatant may
carry a contact safe melee weapon on them that represents an improvised Small,
Standard, or Large melee weapon (they may carry multiple of these if they
wish).  This weapon must match to a melee weapon Skill that the character with
Improvised Weapon current has.  This melee weapon must be marked with a yellow
and a green band to signify that the object is only usable by characters with
the Improvised Weapon Skill and is not an item actually carried at all times.
When using Improvised Weapon, the user of this skill spends 10 Mind Points and
5 minutes roleplaying scrounging for an Improvised Weapon.  The character using
this Skill must not be bound or be suffering from Mangled/Severed arms.  After
the 5 minutes of roleplaying and the 10 Mind Points spent, the user of this
Skill can pull out their stored ‘improvised weapon’ Physical Representation.
This Physical Representation is only usable by the individual with Improvised
Weapon, and is only usable for 10 minutes before the item ‘breaks’.  The
improvised weapon only does one damage, but can be used as an appropriate melee
weapon for Skill use.  When Improvised Weapon is not being used, the melee
Physical Representation should be carried on the player but kept as out of sight
as possible as to not disrupt roleplay.
238

 Civilized Society Profession Concentrations
Profession Focus Requirements: Caravan Driver, Charlatan, Doctor, Entertainer, Gambler, Hookup, Merchant, Politician, Priest, Publican, Ring Leader, Saw Bones, Scoundrel, Spy, Teacher, or Thief.
Civil Servant Focus
Savior of Life
    The Savior of Life skill requires the user of Savior of Life to have the
First Aid Skill.  For 5 Mind Points the character with the Savior of Life
Profession Concentration Skill and the First Aide Skill may place both hands
on a Bleeding Out character to simulate 10 seconds of performing emergency
First Aide (tourniquets, burning wounds shut, etc) on a character to instantly
activate First Aide.  By calling Savior of Life while roleplaying a quick
patching of wounds, the target of Savior of Life is immediately stabilized.
Bearer of the Banner
    It doesn’t always require a great  ghter to lead a people, sometimes it
takes one person of strong will who is willing to raise the standard.  Use of
Bearer of the Banner requires the in-game crafting of a generic item: Banner
of (organization).  The generic item Banner must have an appropriate Physical
Representation of a settlement, faith, gang, Strain, or local organization
insignia.  The size of the banner matters, as the area of effect of Bearer of
the Banner is limited to the line of sight that players have to the physical
representation of the item: Banner of (organization).
    Once per event the user of Bearer of the Banner may spend 20 Mind Points and
call ‘By the sight of the Banner, all (organization): (effect)’.  All characters
that are described by the de nition of the organization of the Banner and are
in the line of sight (and capable of seeing) the Banner may receive the bene t
of one of the following effects.  If an affected character leaves line of site
of the Banner, or is blinded, the bene ts provided by Bearer of the Banner are
lost.  If the Banner is destroyed, or dropped to the ground, the effects of
Bearer of the Banner are lost.  Characters may only have the advantage of one
use of Bearer of the Banner at a time.
Immunity to Fear (Duration 30 minutes) Immunity to Nightmares (Duration 30 minutes) Immunity to Enslavement (Duration 30 minutes) Immunity to Agony (Duration 30 minutes)
Example: By the sight of the Banner, all Citizens are Immune to Fear for 30 minutes.
Example: By the sight of the Banner, all Mericans are immune to Enslavement for 30 minutes.
Example: By the sight of the Banner, all Telling Visions are immune to Agony for 30 minutes.

239
 Bread and Circuses
Sometimes things are just horrible, and people need to be distracted from their worries. With the use of the Bread and Circuses Profession Concentration skill, a character with the Entertain Skill may perform for at least 30 minutes in front of a crowd. Any individuals that stay for the whole duration of the performance (and activation of the Entertain Skill) can be targeted by Bread and Circuses.
• Without the Entertain Skill, use of Bread and Circuses requires that all targeted individuals be provided 1 crafted non-mechanic meal and 1 crafted non- mechanic drink. Each individual must have one full serving of both food and drink.
• Once per event Bread and Circuses may be activated by either the person handing out food and drink or the Entertain with the Bread and Circuses skill, by  rst providing the food and drink or the performance, and then spending 20 Mind Points. Entertainers that have performed may call ‘By the sound of my performance, regain 5 mind’. An individual handing out food and drink may call ‘By the consumption of food and drink, remove all temporary derangements’. If a performer with the skill Entertain has performed while generic food and drink was consumed by all, then the Entertainer may call ‘By my performance, food, and drink remove all temporary derangements and regain 5 mind.”
Socialite Focus
Hosting the Gala Event
240

Hosting a social event in the time of the post-apocalypse is frustrating to say the least. Figuring out what different
combination of cups suggests that you chose each tea serving individually instead of just pulled together what you could,
while dealing with the undead beating down your door is hard work. So if a Host can be assured that the guests aren’t going
to kill one another, then at least one issue has been taken care of. When Hosting the Gala Event, the Socialite Focus
character with this Skill must  rst set a formal dinner or tea space. Food and beverages, of at least the generic
crafted variety, must be provided for all of the guests.
Once everyone is sitting at the table, the individual intending on Hosting the Gala Event must spend 5 Mind Points for every guest that is sitting at the table and partaking in the food and drink. The guests sitting that are being hosted
(targets of the effect) may choose to expend 5 Mind Points of their own to ‘willingly be a part of the festivities’. If the guest spends the 5 Mind to be a willing member, the individual using Hosting the Gala Event regains the 5 Mind
Points they would have spent. Once all targets have been resolved, no individuals at the table may willingly
harm themselves or others sitting at the table. This includes all psionic attacks, use of damage causing
skills, trigger of traps, or giving commands for others to attack. Once one target of Hosting the
Gala Event or the individual using the power takes damage (to armor or body), the effects of Hosting the
Gala Event come to an end.
 Life of the Party
    Being a socialite host is not only dif cult but is also a great
responsibility to ensure the health and safety of those they are hosting.  This
advantage allows the Socialite Focus character access to the Rover ‘Bond of
Salt’ advantage.  In the instance that the character with the Socialite Focus
is already a Rover, then the limitation of 10 Health transferal is instead
increased to up to a 50 health transferal.
Unwanted Guest
    Ensuring the quality of your party sometimes means having an ‘A List’ and
a ‘Nay List’.  A character with a Socialite Focus is capable of making anyone
feel unwelcomed at an event- so much so that they are unable to remain in the
room.  Usable on any Strain, once per event a Socialite Focus character may
spend 5 minutes loudly degrading and being obviously insulting and catty about
an individual.  At the end of the 5 minutes of chastising (if Choking Blow or
other forms of silencing are used midway, the insult train must begin again) the
Socialite Focus character may spend 20 Mind Points to force that individual to
leave line of sight of the Socialite Focus character (minimum 50 feet) and not
return for one hour.  Use of this Skill may not be defended against, delayed,
mind resisted, or refused.  This Skill only works on living Strains who are
capable of removing themselves.  In the instance that a target of Unwanted Guest
is unable to remove themselves (Mangled limbs, effect of Tied Bonds), the target
will suffer under the effect of Choking Blow for 10 minutes as they silently
look at the ground in shame.
Resource Manager Focus
The Dead Market
    Somewhere between the connections of the Black Market and the Guilds of
Murder Inc. and the associated assassin’s guilds is a long-standing network of
body part merchants.  This network of Grave Robbers, assassins, and black market
dealers do not trade in most common currencies, but instead only do business
with debts of life or death.  Commonly known as ‘Blood Notes’, these dif cult
to procure currencies are capable of purchasing some of the most hard to  nd
materials and favors.  At Check In, a character with this skill may trade in
Blood Notes for any of the following items.
    2 Blood Note – Gizmo
        Little Blue Vial.  6 Month Expiration.  Used in conjunction with Grave
    Robber procedures.
    4 Blood Notes – Gizmo
        Single Use Tank Heart. 6 Month Expiration.  Used in conjunction with
    Grave Robber procedures.
    6 Blood Notes - Honor Hunt
        A ‘must kill’ contract is opened on a single individual which will
    be passed along to Murder Inc. or the local associated Guild Membership.
    Contract is active at the branch in which the Blood Note is expended.
    Effects to remove this contract may not be used until at least 2 months
    after the purchase of an Honor Hunt.

241
     6 Blood Notes – Persona Non Grata
        Bribing the local Black Market to compete to make a target’s life
    miserable, being marked as Persona Non Grata puts any Black Market member
    who is willing to do business with the target in poor standing with the
    Black Market.  Contests for promotion and rare materials provided to the
    individual who does the most economic harm to the Persona Non Grata is
    standard within the Black Market.  Being Persona Non Grata may not be
    removed by any means for at least 2 months after the purchase of Persona Non
    Grata.
Route Management
    Trade Routes often times require an extensive amount of footwork to locate
and keep operational.  With the Route Management Concentration Skill a player
that has traveled to a neighboring branch, not their home game, may spend 20
Trade Notes to open a 3 month Route Management (Name of Branch) Trade Route.
This Trade Route allows a player to have access to one branch speci c named Herb
or Scrap via the trade route at a rate of 5 Trade Union Notes per unit of Herb
or Scrap, with a maximum of 2 units being able to be purchased per Check In.
If the player with the Route Management skill has the Skill Trade Routes, the
maximum number of units of Herb or Scrap is increased to 5 per event.
    Once this Route Management (Name of Branch) card
has been produced, it may only be used at the player’s
home game as per regular Trade Route use.  A player
may only have one Route Management Trade Route linked
with each branch at a time.  The trade routes are
nontransferable and may not be augmented with Skills
or other item effects.
Financial Exchange
This Skill allows the character with the Financial Exchange skill the ability to purchase Trade Notes at the current listed rate (as per current value list) using their home branches base economy during check in. This Skill also allows players to cash in up to 20 trade notes at a travel event (an event at another branches game) for local currency at the current listed rate
(as per current value list)
242

 Crafting and Production Profession Concentrations
Profession Focus Requirements: Cook, Distiller, Engineer, Mad Scientist, Printer, Scavenger, Tinker
Consumables Producer Focus
Extra Mile
    If you are a Distiller, a Tinker, an Engineer, or a Cook there is nothing
sadder in the world than seeing something expired before it could be used.  The
skilled craftsman knows that if you trim the edges, cut away the mold, press
the corners, shave off the broken bits, that most of the time you can squeeze a
little more life out of resources gone bad.  Any character with the Extra Mile
skill may spend 30 minutes roleplaying recovering a resource (drying, upkeep,
trimming, etc.), and then expend 20 Mind Points and a basic Scrap and basic
Herb.  Once the roleplay and the expenditure is complete, the player may go to
Logistics to have the expiration date of any single Produce, Herb, Scrap, print,
weapon, Brew, Meal, armor, shield, shooter, bow, knucks, Gizmo, or engineered
enhancement two months beyond the items expiration date (not date of Skill
used).  This item is then marked as ‘Extended’ on the item card, meaning that
Extra Mile may not be used on that item ever again.    Use of Extra Mile on
crafted resource (meal, armor, shield, shooter, bow, knucks, Gizmo, engineered
enhancement) requires that the user have the appropriate crafting skill to
have built the item in the  rst place (Forging the Future for engineered
enhancements, etc.).
Make A Show Of It
    As a Distiller, Cook, Distiller, Tinker, or Engineer sometimes there is
nothing more boring than the time it takes to craft a complex Meal or Brew; just
to have the person who wants it run off without so much as a thank you.  For
those that suffer for their craft, often times they have found that the time
to craft goes faster if there is company to share the work.  A character with
the Make A Show Of It Skill may spend 10 Mind Points to trigger the ‘Entertain’
Skill (even without having the Skill) on a target character who keeps the
crafter company.  The user of Make a Show of It must safely augment their
roleplay for crafting to be more entertaining and interesting to observe.  If
the user of Make A Show Of It already possesses the Entertain Skill, they may
activate the Entertain Skill for 1 mind point instead of the standard cost.
Make A Show Of It use does count towards the use of Entertain use limit, however
cooking performances are restricted to a minimum of 20 minutes of roleplay to
trigger the Entertain Skill.  Skills that bene t from this advantage are: Brew
Master, Brewing, Building Tomorrow, Forging the Future, Healthy Feast, Prepare
Meal, Transcribe, and Weld.  This skill does not cut down production time, and
any tools or equipment used to augment the production process must be possessed
by both crafters involved.

243
 Resourceful Mind
    Often times on of the biggest dif culties a crafter has is  nding the
prints, recipes, and instructions that the crafter needs to get the job done.
Once per event a character with the Resourceful Mind Skill may spend 30 minutes
roleplaying in an appropriate location to research and experiment and then spend
20 Mind Points.  After spending these Mind Points the player may go to Logistics
to collect a single random Blueprint from their appropriate print category.
Prints are rolled from randomly in the ‘available to all games’ section of the
Blueprint categories.  This may produce prints that the skill user already owns,
at which point there is no re-roll.
    Please see the following chart to determine how the Blueprint is chosen:
Skill Player Has
Brew Master
Building Tomorrow
Forging the Future
Healthy Feast
Transcribe
Location Character Must RP In
Engineered Still (card required)
Engineered Workbench (card required)
Engineered Forge (card required)
Engineered Kitchen (card required)
Engineered Library (card required)
Print Category
Brewing Prints
Tinker Prints
Engineering Prints
Cooking Prints
Choice of any above
Quality Producer Focus
Made to Order
    Allows a crafter to take a Two Handed melee weapon, that is at least Crafts
Level 5, and craft that item to become a Pole-Arm grade weapon.  Pole-Arm
grade weapons may only be used by characters with the Pole-Arm mastery skill.
Production of Made to Order requires a workbench, 30 minutes of role-playing
the breaking down and reconstruction of the weapon, and 20 Mind Points.  No
materials are required to be expended during the use of Made to Order, nor do
any other mechanics or expiration dates change for the Two Handed weapon.  When
done with the expenditure and the roleplay of Made to Order, the original Item
Card and Workbench card must be brought to logistics to have a new Item Card
produced.  This new Item Card duplicates all of the information on the original
card, except the word Pole-Arm requirement is added to the mechanics.
Custom Modi cation
    Allows a crafter to repurpose  rearms and bows to create high-end Heavy
Ordinance grade weapons.  By reworking  ring mechanisms, mechanical components,
and basic design of a weapon, the crafter can take a  rearm of Crafts Level
5 or greater, or a bow of Crafts Level 5 or greater, and produce a ranged
weapon that no longer requires bolt action or bow, but instead requires the
Heavy Ordinance Skill for use.  Custom Modi cation requires a Workbench, 30
minutes of roleplaying the breaking down and reconstruction of the weapon, and
20 Mind Points.   No materials are required to be expended during the use of
Custom Modi cation, nor do any other mechanics or expiration dates change for
the  rearm or bow.  When done with the expenditure and the roleplay of Made to
Order, the original Item Card and Workbench card must be brought to Logistics
to have a new item card produced.  This new Item Card duplicates all of the
information on the original card, except the word Heavy Ordinance is added to
the mechanics.
244

 Rushed Job
    Sometimes a customer needs a brew, meal, or engineering enhancement in
period of time that is just impossible to pull off.  Sometimes crafters are
capable of doing the impossible.  With the Skill Rushed Job, once per event a
crafter can expend 10 Mind Points and 5 Health beyond the required production
cost of a single crafted item to produce the item in 2 Minutes.  The two
minutes of roleplay of the use of this Skill should involve a  urry of activity
involving the appropriate engineered work area (engineered Kitchen, engineered
Transcription table, engineered Still, engineered Forge, or engineered
Workbench).  Use of this Skill works with the following Skills: Forging the
Future, Healthy Feast, Prepare Meal, Building Tomorrow, Transcribe, Brewing,
or Brew Master.  The transcription, creation, or production of an item via
Blueprint MUST have the required Skill listed to be able to use Rushed Job.  In
the instance that a print does not list one of the prior skills for production,
that print may not bene t from Rushed Job.  Any print transcription, if possible
of being copied, is assumed to using the Transcription skill.  At the completion
of a Rushed Job, the Kitchen, Forge, Workbench, or Transcription Table/Gizmos
used are completely destroyed as they fall apart.  The work area may not be
repaired, chopped, or salvaged in any way.
Quantity Producer Focus
Thousand Armed Crafter
                               Being able to juggle multiple projects at the
                            same time is a telling sign of a true crafting
                            master. The Thousand Armed Crafter is capable of
                            using multiple crafting Skills at the same time
                            as long as the appropriate tools and supplies are
                            within reach.  As long as the required workplace
                            for two forms of crafting are within 10 steps of
                           one another (Forge, Workbench, Still, Kitchen,
                          Drafting table) a character with the appropriate
                          crafting Skills may operate two separate Skills and
                          two separate projects at the same time.  In addition,
                         two uses of the same Skill (as long as there are two
                         of the same required crafting station within 10 paces)
                         may be used at the same time.  While this Skill does
                         not lower production time, Mind Point cost, or provide
                         Skills that the character already has, this Skill
                         does allow for greatly reduced time tables by allowing
                         simultaneous use of two of the prior listed Skills at
                         the same time.
                            When using the Thousand Armed Crafter advantage,
                        the crafter must roleplay running back and forth
                        between projects.  Each crafting job is considered
                        separate in regards to time reduction, augments, and
                        effects used. If the crafter activates any other Skills
                        or is damaged while using Thousand Armed Crafter, ALL
                          projects are considered lost.

245
 A Stitch in Time
Having a systematic and organized system of crafting allows for multiple projects to be completed at the same time. By expending the materials (Scrap, Herb, Gizmos, etc) for 2 of the same product, a crafter with the Stitch in Time Skill may produce two identical items at the same time. While this does not reduce the time required to produce one item, or the number of supplies that needed to
be expended to craft both items, or the Mind Points required to craft both items, it does allow for the time to produce 2 identical items to be shared one the same work space. This Skill applies to Brewing, Forging the Future, Building Tomorrow, Healthy Feast, and any Blueprint that requires at least one of these skills.
    When using A Stitch in Time, the crafter must roleplay running back and
forth between projects.  Each crafting job is considered separate in regards to
time reduction, augments, and effects used.  If the crafter activates any other
Skills or is damaged while using A Stitch in Time, ALL projects are considered
lost.
Tchotchkes for Miles
    Generic Meals, Generic Crafted items, Generic Room Additions, and Generic
Food, while not  lling or useful, can make a fortune.  Sometimes people are
willing to shell out quality currency for the simple pleasures.  With the
Tchotchkes for Miles Profession Concentration Skill, the bulk crafter can get
more miles out of their generic production.  Generic Meals and Generic Drinks
produced with the Tchotchkes for Miles advantage last 6 months instead of their
normal expirations.  In addition, when crafting generic Gizmo items, those
crafted items are automatically produced at 1 Crafts Level higher than they
should be produced, according to the supplies and Mind Points invested into the
crafting of the item.
246

 
Advanced Professions
There are rumors within the wastes— rumors of men and women that can accomplish extraordinary feats. There are rumors of secret Pure Blood societies,
rumors of men who can disappear at a glance, rumors of women who can kill zed with a single blow. And while many of these rumors remain that -just rumors— there are others that coalesce into something more: Advanced Professions.
Advanced Professions offer unique
and powerful Skills, which
is why they’re not easy to come
by. In fact, most characters will never
achieve an Advanced Profession. Yet for those
who do, the Skills offered can be powerful assets. There
are, however, a few things to keep in mind when you think about Advanced Professions.
Advanced Professions shouldn’t ever be your character’s end goal. In fact, most characters are unlikely
to have even heard of most Advanced Professions. And it’s likely that if you’re seeking an Advanced Profession, you’re just as unlikely to get it. Most characters who achieve one of these Professions end up stumbling into it rather than
actively seeking it; remember that it’s about the journey rather
than the destination.
There are a surprising number of players who create a character with an Advanced Profession in mind. It may seem like a good idea at the time, but characters evolve. By the time that you character is mechanically quali ed for an Advanced Profession, your character is liable
to be completely different from when you  rst created them. Not only that, but creating a character
with and Advanced Profession in mind usually puts them on a “set track” and doesn’t leave them open for development.
Instead of opening up your character to new possibilities (and possibly other Advanced Professions), you may actually be limiting
your character by intending them for a certain Advanced Profession.
247
 248

 Above all, Advanced Professions are about roleplay. Simply purchasing the basic Skill and Profession prerequisites does not automatically entitle your character
to learn an Advanced Profession. For example, even if your character has above 100 Experience Points and is a Soldier, there’s no guarantee he’ll ever be a Mercenary. It can take months or even years of roleplay before a character is considered quali ed to receive an Advanced Profession— and even then there’s still a long road ahead.
Learning an Advanced Profession requires more teaching time than normal— no
less than 45 minutes of in-depth and interactive roleplay each month over a three month period. This represents the minimum time required; it is both common and highly encouraged for Advanced Profession training to take much longer, as well as involve activities such as joining secret societies, passing initiation ceremonies, undertaking dangerous tasks on behalf of their mentor and other daunting challenges. For example, a person attempting to become a Shadow may have to murder someone in a certain way in order to prove themselves to their Advanced Profession teacher.
Each month when the Advanced Profession teacher  nishes a lesson, he must provide you with a unique Item Card with the Advanced Profession being taught as well as which lesson number you happen to be on (1, 2, or 3). At the end of the three months of teaching, which must happen within a total of a 6 month period, you must spend 10 Experience Points to learn the Advanced Profession. The profession will then be available to you the following month.
Once your character learns an Advanced Profession, you cannot teach it until six months of active play have passed. In addition, you can’t teach a new student without  rst getting approval from the ST staff (at least one month prior to teaching).
    This isn’t the only thing to keep in mind, either. If you’ve received
permission to teach another player an Advanced Profession, you can’t complete
their training— only initiate it. Only a NPC Advanced Profession teacher in a
player’s home game may teach any student their  nal (3rd) lesson for an Advanced
Profession. In addition, if you abandon your student, then your former pupil
may not begin to learn the Advanced Profession from either you or a new teacher
again for three months.
Advanced Professions do not count towards the maximum allotted three Professions per character cap. In other words, you can have three normal Professions and a “fourth” Advanced Profession. If an Advanced Profession is ever removed from a character’s sheet for any reason, all Skills related to that Advanced Profession are immediately lost as well. If a regular Profession which is a prerequisite Profession to an Advanced Profession is lost or abandoned, the Advanced Profession is lost as well.
    Advanced Professions are not a right, nor are they available to all
character concepts.  Advanced Professions are awarded by Director’s decision.

249
 Apocatastian Templar
Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health Profession: Priest
    One of the following Professions:
Guard
Of cer
Faith: Must Have One
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Shroud of Faith Guardian of the Order Pillar of Strength The Lone Guard
Wrath of the Just
Cost Prerequisite
10 10 10 10 10
    Apocatastian Templars are a unique order of spiritual warriors who devote
their entire existence to the faith they follow. Fierce warriors, religious
leaders, and even martyrs if necessary, Apocatastian Templars are the embodiment
of their faith. Each faith, with its unique morality code, de nes how an
Apocatastian Templar must act.
Restrictions
    Apocatastian Templars can never change their faith or go against their
religion. In addition, their abilities work best while standing on ground
consecrated to their chosen faith and/or while surrounded by other believers,
making them ideal watchmen and leaders of the faithful, but far less effective
as lone wolves and aggressors.
    For the purposes of Apocatastian Templar skills, a place of worship is
de ned as a place which was blessed at least six months prior, and is regularly
used for prayer service.
Advanced Skills
Shroud of Faith
    A Templar with this Skill literally takes the lives of the faithful into
their hands, ensuring that others who share their faith do not fall further
into the grip of the infection. By spending 10 Mind Points and 5 Health Points,
an Apocatastian Templar can raise their hand into the air and declare ‘Shroud
of Faith’ along with the name of their religion. All baptized members of their
faith within 10 feet immediately pause their Bleed Out count, and do not
resume it until the effect is released. During the duration of this effect, the
Apocatastian Templar must stand with their hand raised high over their head in
a  st, and cannot move, act, or use other Skills, though they may still speak
normally.
250

 Guardian of the Order
    A Templar with this Skill is often charged with the task of defending
their places of worship, and their unwavering devotion can even inspire their
fellow believers to stand strong in the face of mind-numbing horrors. By
spending 20 Mind Points while standing within an established place of worship,
an Apocatastian Templar can ignore threats that would shake the will of lesser
individuals. For the duration of 1 hour all Fear and Terror effects targeting
the user of Guardian of the Order immediately fail, as do all such effects used
against others members of the faith while in that place of worship.
Pillar of Strength
    A Templar within his place of worship can use prayer to tap into a deep core
of spiritual strength, and ultimately don that sanctity like a suit of armor.
After spending 10 minutes in deep prayer in their place of worship, the Templar
with this skill may expend 20 Mind Points. At the end of the Templar’s prayer,
the Templar is gifted with 50 points of radiant spiritual armor for the next
hour. This armor is signi ed by hanging a clearly visible blue glow stick around
the torso of the user.
The Lone Guard
    At times personal sacri ce is needed to ensure the safety of others. An
Apocatastian Templar with this skill may spend 20 Mind Points and sacri ce all
remaining Health Points (minimum of 20 required) while standing in a doorway to
their place of worship. For the next hour any healing effects, brews, or powers
that bestow Health Points on the Templar instantly fail, and the Templar cannot
take a single step. However, during this hour they are immune to all physical
and psionic based skills, attacks, and damage. In addition, any Skills that
would forcibly move them or otherwise cause the Templar to leave their post
immediately fail. At the end of this hour, the Templar begins a 1 minute Bleed
Out period; even then, however, they still do not leave their post. Instead they
continue to hold their ground while death grips them; they cannot attack but
still block the entrance.
Wrath of the Just
    At times temperance is not a valid choice, and truly terrifying wrath must
be unleashed upon the enemies of your faith. To activate this Skill,  rst the
Templar must receive a Bless Weapon from a priest of their faith other than
themselves. Following this blessing, the Templar may fall to their knees, offer
a prayer to their higher power and expend 10 Mind Points and 10 Health Points.
The next 3 attacks performed by the Templar do 30 Blessed damage! If these
attacks are not used in an hour, they are lost.

251
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health One of the following Professions:
        Gambler
        Scavenger
        Teacher
        Jones
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Trademark Item Dust and Bones Side Kick Smuggler’s Run Don’t Monologue
Cost Prerequisite
10
10 Trademark Item 10
10 Trademark Item 10 Brawling
Avontuur
    It’s more than just  nding old things. Anyone can  nd something that is old.
Avontuurs discover ancient civilizations, pull out details of the past, research
lost cultures, and hopefully get  lthy rich in the process.
Advanced Skills
Side Kick
An Avontuur without an assistant is just a junk collector bogged down by equipment. After roleplaying a 30 minute training session, an Avontuur with the
Side Kick skill can instruct a willing character with less than 50 earned experience points to become the Avontuurs Side Kick. After the 30 minutes of training and
the expenditure of 20 Mind Points by the Avontuur, the trained Side Kick gains the ability to carry at a rate of 2 (as per Iron Slave skill. Iron Slaves increase
to a Carry rate of 3) as well as one free use of ‘Bomb Awareness’ and ‘Alert’ per Twelves. Both the increase in Carry as well as the use of Bomb Awareness and Alert may be only used when within 10 paces of the Avontuur that used Side Kick to train them. As long as the Avontuur with Side Kick has an active (living, conscious, and not in Bleed Out) Side Kick within 10 paces, Bomb Awareness and Alert Skill uses cost drop to 1 Mind Point each. Able Assistant lasts until the Side Kick enters Bleed Out, dies, or is released by the Avontuur. Multiple Side Kicks may be used at the same time; however, each Side Kick requires its own 30 minute training session unless the Avontuur has the ‘Instruct’ Skill.
Don’t Monologue
Everyone hates it when a villain or a nemesis just keeps on gloating, talking,
and going into a prolonged monologue. If a target has been talking for at least 5 minutes without active back and forth dialog (talking for 5 minutes without response
or interaction) then the Avontuur may expend 10 Mind Points to engage the ‘Knockout’ skill with either a thrown weapon or a brawler- without need of striking the target
in the back! When using Don’t Monologue the Avontuur must declare ‘Don’t Monologue, Knockout!’ when they strike with their brawler or with the use of a thrown weapon. This Skill may be avoided or parried as per normal thrown weapon or brawling strike; however, regardless if the strike lands or not this Skill disrupts the use of Gilded Daisy.
252

 Dust and Bones
    Once per event an Avontuur can shrug off the effects of being blown up
by traps, poisoned by bizarre chemicals, and mauled by wild creatures. If the
Avontuur has bled out (not Killing Blown but gone a full 5 minutes into death)
the Avontuur with Dust and Bones can lie under the effects of ‘Feign Death’ for
10 minutes. During these 10 minutes any attempts to Killing Blow or use Check
Status on the Avontuur fail. After 10 minutes of being ‘dead,’ the Avontuur
can slowly get to their feet with 1 point of Health. If during the 10 minutes
of post mortem use of Dust and Bones anyone attempts to take the Avontuurs
‘Trademark Item,’ then the Avontuur may immediately get to their feet with 1
point of Health, as long as they focus on getting back their Trademark Item
immediately.
Smuggler’s Run
    Sometimes getting the prize is not as dif cult as getting away with the
prize. Smuggler’s Run allows an Avontuur to quickly escape a deadly environment
after grabbing the needed prize. Once per event an Avontuur can expend 10 Mind
Points to fair escape a NPC LAND MODULE (may not be used in available ‘roleplay’
territory or PVP situations) to escape as long as they have no Mangled legs, are
not restrained via Binds, are not in Bleed Out, are not using the Rescue Skill,
and have not been Knocked out. Once the 10 Mind Points have been expended, the
Avontuur must SPRINT from where they currently are on site back to Logistics to
report that they have utilized Smuggler’s Run. If the Marshal or any assigned
NPC running the module is able to beat the Avontuur to Logistics, then the
Avontuur will return to play stabilized from Bleed Out due to damage taken while
escaping. If the Avontuur makes their way back to Logistics before the Marshal
or assigned NPC, the Avontuur may enter play at full health. After activating
‘Smuggler’s Run’ the Avontuur must put their OOC gesture up and wait for the
Marshal or NPC to be ready to chase. The two running individuals may not engage
other PCs nor engage each other in combat/Skill use. During the entire run both
the Marshal and the NPC must have OOC headbands on (User of Smuggler’s Run is
required to carry two on them). If this Skill is used in periods of unsafe
terrain (mud, snow, hurricane, pitch black night) the Marshal on hand may opt to
send the Avontuur back with 1/2 their current Health rounded down.
Trademark Item
The commanding personality of an Avontuur often times results in certain trademark aspects of that individual’s persona. Be it a lucky rabbit’s foot that they always have on them, a special hat, or even a particular piece of jewelry, every good Avontuur has a Trademark image to them. By having a particular creature comfort card, an appropriate Physical Representation of the item in question,
and by expending 10 Mind Points, an Avontuur may develop a Trademark item. This item, explained on a unique item card, allows the Avontuur to reduce Charisma time requirements to 2 minutes and ‘Deny’ single uses of ‘torture’ or ‘interrogate’ by expending 5 Mind Points (Deny allows the interrogated to choose to not respond or instead give a witty retort). An Avontuur may only have one Trademark item at a time, and is required to have the item plainly visible to utilize the Charisma or ‘Deny’ skills. Trademark items expire every 6 months; however, the same creature comfort card and Physical Representation may be used again after the 6 month period. If a Trademark item is ever stolen, the individual holding the Trademark item receives the skills ‘Tie Binds’ and ‘Knock Out’ that they may only expend on the Avontuur (standard Mind Point expenditures required).

253
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health One of the following Professions:
        Thug
        Pugilist
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Last Word
Echoing Pain Strong Chin Tougher Than Metal Ring Out
Cost Prerequisite
10 10 10 10 10
Bone Breaker
    There’s an old saying that when all you have is a hammer, every problem
looks like nail. Bone Breakers have a very similar “philosophy” – you can make
any problem go away if you just apply enough force. Bone Breakers are not known
for their creative thinking, complex plans, or even their capacity for feeling.
Bone Breakers are known for one thing, and by that they are aptly named.
Advanced Skills
Last Word
    Nothing pisses off a Bone Breaker more than a weasel who talks their way out
of situations. By expending 10 Mind Points and successfully landing a brawling
attack on the guilty party, a Bone Breaker may negate the effect of any current
uses of Beg for Life, Charisma, Fear, Terror, or Frightening Force applied
against them. The Bone Breaker then becomes immune to effects from these Skills
for 5 minutes after activating Last Word.
Echoing Pain
    Bone Breakers know how to hurt people, and hurt people bad. Echoing Pain
mimics the effects of the Skill Torture, including cost, but with two major
changes. When a Bone Breaker uses Echoing Pain, they must use their hands –i.e.
brawling boffer attacks, do not actually lay hands on other people!– to assault
the target. They cannot use any other weapons or means of in icting pain,
or allow others to do so. At the end of the Torture session, if at least 20
minutes of pain was in icted, the target receives the temporary derangement of
‘algophobia’ (fear of pain) for the next 2 hours.
Strong Chin
    Bone Breakers not only dish out large amounts of pain, but they have endured
equally massive amounts of punishment as well. Accustomed to the abuse of
brawling matches, Bone Breakers ignore all brawling damage attacks of 2 or less
damage. Note that Skills, poisons or other effects that take effect through
damaging strikes are still effective if they hit; only the strike damage itself
is nulli ed. If the Bone Breaker is wearing armor, the armor is damaged before
Strong Chin begins to work.
254

 Tougher than Metal
    Bone Breakers often walk into battle without wielding weapons, and with good
reason. A Bone Breaker with this Skill does 2 additional points of damage with
each brawling strike that they land. In addition, a Bone Breaker with this Skill
may expend 5 Mind Points to do a total of 10 damage with a single successful
brawling attack.
Ring Out
    Sometimes a  ght doesn’t require you to beat an opponent into submission,
but instead simply remove them from the combat area. Ring Out allows a Bone
Breaker to expend 10 Mind Points and send their target back 20 paces with a
successful brawling attack. In addition, the target is stunned, and may only
defend themselves for 2 minutes. Zombies who are struck with this skill do not
become stunned, but instead suffer 75 damage as half of the zombie goes  ying 20
paces. If this is enough damage to down a zombie, they are also considered to
have received a Killing Blow.

255
 Requirements
Strain: Any Non-Red Star
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health One of the following Professions:
        Caravan Driver
        Hook-Up
        Merchant
        Publican
Profession Bio
Skill Name
New Horizons Bankrolling Cornered Market New Design Mini-Mall
Cost Prerequisite
10 10 10 10 10
Entrepreneur
    While people can try and scratch a living out of the dust, you much prefer
to live well by ensuring that essential products make their way to the people
willing to pay the most to receive them. Not a necessary job in the eyes of
most, nonetheless the cash  ow control of a ‘middle manager’ can make or break
the bankroll of entire towns.
Restrictions
Entrepreneurs do not see the advantage of teaching others their unique trade
secrets unless they can  gure out a means for it to bene t themselves. Because
of that, prospective students will need to  ght hard on a social level to  nd a
teacher for this Advanced Profession or any of its skills. Entrepreneurs will
never teach their secrets, unless they are receiving what they feel is a good
deal to do so.
Advanced Skills
New Horizons
    An Entrepreneur with this skill understands that what is common in one town
may be rare and expensive in another. An Entrepreneur may expend 5 Mind Points
to turn any one Basic Scrap or Herb card in for one Rare Scrap or Herb card. One
commodity may be exchanged for the other, that is, Scrap for Herb or Herb for
Scrap. Each card exchanged this way requires an individual expenditure of Mind
Points. This Skill is used before play, but not during Check In - instead, it
is used after Opening Announcements, allowing a savvy Entrepreneur to gather an
idea of what people might need.
Bankrolling
    You have to spend money to make money they say, and this Skill shows the
proof of that. At the start of an event, before entering play, an Entrepreneur
may expend 5 Mind Points and risk any amount of money in their possession. (You
cannot risk credits you do not have.) After this is done, roll a twenty sided
die. On a 1, all of the risked credits were lost in a venture. On 2-9 half of
the risked credits were lost on a venture (rounded down). On a 10-19, you gain
credits equal to half the amount risked (rounded up). On a 20 the amount of
credits gained equals double the amount risked. This skill may only be used once
before a particular event, and the die roll must be witnessed by a Staff Member.
256

 Cornered Market
    Having a monopoly on a product is vital in regards to controlling the amount
that you can charge for it. With this Skill, you can manipulate caravan  ow and
Trade Ties to such a point where by informing Logistics and expending 15 Mind
Points, you can specify that a particular Named Scrap, Named Herb, recipe, or
Blueprint is no longer available via outside trade. This Skill’s effects last
for the duration of one day; a prolonged ‘product draught’ requires continued
expenditures. If someone does attempt to gain said items from Logistics through
the use of Skills, they will be informed that stock ‘Just ran out’ and that they
should check back later.
New Design
    With this Skill, an Entrepreneur has their  ngers in so many different
pies that they are always the  rst to learn about new developments in regards
to marketable technology. At the start of an event before entering play, an
Entrepreneur with this Skill may expend 5 Mind Points to look through 5 random
Blueprints at Logistics. The Entrepreneur has the option of purchasing one of
the items described in the blueprints, at a credit cost of 50 local currency for
the blueprint or item.
Mini-Mall
    The only thing better than making money from selling product is getting
other people to sell things that make you money! With this Skill an Entrepreneur
may place items they own up for sale and trade not only at their own local
market, but also listed in the Black Market as well as in merchant areas outside
of town. Mini-Mall costs nothing to activate, however, any item that is placed
up for sale will receive bids not only from the players, but also from NPCs
who may or may not even enter game. On occasion a Staff Member may approach an
Entrepreneur with this Skill with a bid on an item either through the Black
Market (where PCs can buy items anonymously) or bids from outside the city.
Note: Only items with Item Cards may be used with Mini-Mall.

257
 Requirements
Strain: Retrograde, OR
        Have received ‘Radiation
        Poisoning’ every month for 6
        consecutive months
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health Faith: Church of Darwin
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Cost Prerequisite
Free Radical
Atom Smasher 10 Evolution 10 Healthy Green Glow 10 Jacob’s Broken Ladder 10 Share the Love 10
Evolution
    It takes a ton of focus, dedication, and radiation to unravel the genetic
structure of an individual and to truly evolve. The Free Radicals, changed
through the worship (and exposure) to radiation, know this better than anyone
else. Advanced beyond the physical capacities of most ‘normal’ survivors, some
would argue that being a Free Radical is more like a new Strain than an Advanced
Profession. Free Radicals love the warm glow of radiation, and  nd themselves
unable to sleep or rest without basking in at least some of its gene bending
warmth. Any Free Radical that is outside of the range of nuclear material at the
Twelves does not replenish their Mind Points until they can  nd some radiation
to bask in.
Advanced Skills
Atom Smasher
    A Free Radical with this Skill can cause the radiation coursing through
their veins to assist them in battle. By expending 5 Mind Points, and taking 1
damage that cannot be blocked by armor, the Free Radical soaks a single weapon
with their irradiated blood. For the next hour, this weapon gains the trait
‘Radiation’ and increases its damage by 1. This Skill does not work on bows or
 rearms; however, it does work on javelins and thrown weapons. This Skill may
not be stacked on a single item, and items with this effect should be marked
with small green glow sticks at night (or similar effects).
Evolution
    Free Radicals with this Skill are horri c to most outsiders. If a Free
Radical who is not a Retrograde gains this Skill, they begin to suffer from
the same physical deformity that Retrogrades suffer from. If the Free Radical
is already a Retrograde, their skeletal features become incredibly pronounced,
and they must costume or wear makeup accordingly. When Evolution is purchased,
painful mutations course through the recipient’s body, and never entirely go
away. However, these mutations also grant rapid cellular regeneration; by
expending 1 Mind Point, the Free Radical unleashes these energies, instantly
(though painfully) repairing any broken or mangled limbs.
258

 Healthy Green Glow
Free Radicals love their radiation, and one with this skill loves the green stuff even more so. Not only is any damage with the radiation descriptor nulli ed, the Free Radical regains 1 Health instead of being harmed. (No matter how much damage is nulli ed, only 1 Health is regained.) This applies to Area of Effect attacks as well as damage speci cally directed at the Free Radical. Simply being in areas of high radiation does not heal Free Radicals, as the radiation effect must actively declare damage. This Skill does not work on targets that are already in Bleed Out. To use Healthy Green Glow the Free Radical must at least be at 1 Health.
Jacob’s Broken Ladder
A Free Radical has begun to alter their genetic structure at a cellular level, to such a degree that they nearly appear to become their own separate Strain. When this skill is learned, the Free Radical with this Skill emits a warm green glow when they sleep at night. This glow must be represented by the use of green lights or glow sticks when the Skill owner actually out-of-character sleeps. Any person who attacks an individual with Jacob’s Broken Ladder while they sleep resolves their attack normally; however, a radioactive cloud is immediately released into the
room, in icting 20 Radiation Damage to everyone in the room. (Bomb Awareness allows an individual to avoid this damage, assuming they were not the one who landed the strike.) This damage also causes the illness ‘Radiation Poisoning’ to any who suffer damage from this effect.
Share the Love
By far the most disturbing capability of a Free Radical, this Skill is the ultimate expression of their unstable nature. A Free Radical with this skill may reset their genome with the expenditure of 20 Mind Points and 4 hours of roleplaying this intensely painful, transformative experience. This Skill cannot be used without notifying the game staff one event in advance, and may require extensive work prior to its use, due to the fact that it allows a Free Radical to permanently rewrite their genetic structure.
In game terms, this means that they may either become a member of an existing Strain other than their own, or even to create a new Strain. Creation of a new Strain results in a custom ‘unique Item Card’ which must be carried on the character at all times to explain the advantages and disadvantages of the new Strain. The mechanics of the new Strain must  rst be approved by both local branch AND network before being allowed to enter play. Use of this Skill causes the loss of the
Free Radical Advanced Profession and all Skills associated with the Free Radical profession. In addition, if the character purchased a Skill from their original Strain list that their new Strain list does not have and that is not available through their other lists, that Skill is also lost. For example, if a Retrograde purchased Cover of Night from their Strain list, but neither their existing professions nor their new Strain list receives that Skill, it is immediately lost.
Acquiring an existing Strain simply requires alerting the game staff as normal. By contrast, the creation of a new Strain must receive written approval by the staff prior to the use of this skill, as crafting a new Strain requires extensive work with the staff in order to ensure that they are balanced, interesting and in keeping with the tone and  avor of the game. New Strains created this way will have advantages, disadvantages and Skill lists dictated by the staff - while the player may certainly contribute ideas and suggestions as part of this process, in the end the  nal say regarding new Strains is in the hands of the senior Staff Member. Only when all the details are  nalized in writing and approved by senior staff will a new Strain be approved and this Skill ready for play.

259
 Requirements
Strain: Pure Blood, or must
possess Lore (Pure Blood) Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health Skills: Literacy, Lore (pre-Fall
        History: Modern), Torture OR
        Interrogate.
    Restrictions: Cannot be a member
    of Black Market.
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Arrest Warrant Bound By Law Forensic Rituals The Oath
Trained Inquisitor
Cost Prerequisite
10 The Oath 10 The Oath 10 The Oath 10
10 The Oath
G-Man
Most survivors believe the federal government is long since shattered and gone,
but the truth is that a shadow of it survives, still trying to bring order to the wastelands. Funded by a number of prominent Pure Blood families and tasked with investigating troubling mysteries and tracking down the most dangerous criminals, the Federally Bonded Inquisition is nowhere near the law enforcement power it was before the Fall, but that doesn’t mean it isn’t dangerous. As a  eld agent, or “G-Man,” you are one of these operatives, recruited for your extraordinary talents and belief in this higher cause, and now sworn to rebuild this once great nation, one case at a time.
Restrictions
G-Men must obey their chain of command at all times; while agents enjoy a certain amount of autonomy in the  eld, rogue operators are not tolerated, and quickly hunted down by the agency. Last but not least, while not undercover or gearing for battle, G-Men are expected to present as clean and professional appearance as possible, as well as carry their sacred badge and authorized identi cation with them at all times.
Advanced Skills
Arrest Warrant
When a G-Man sets their sights on a target, very little can keep them from bringing that fugitive in. To use this skill, the G-Man must  rst receive or compile a  le on their target, listing everything they know and preferably whatever else they can uncover through interviewing witnesses, victims, known associates and the like. Other details such as sketches,  ngerprints, etc., are encouraged but not required. The target must
be at least under suspicion of a crime worthy of the G-Man’s of cial notice – murder, slaving (in certain areas), terrorism, guild membership, black market membership, theft of vital national secrets – or be the subject of a special request for assistance by local law enforcement. After that, the G-Man must study this  le for a minimum of one hour and draw up an arrest warrant naming the subject and their alleged crimes as well as spend 15 Mind Points. An agent may only have one Arrest Warrant active a time; if they choose to change their target, the  rst warrant immediately expires.
260

 For one full day afterward, when confronting the target of their Arrest Warrant, the G-Man may declare “Arrest Warrant! Negate!” to negate the following skills: Cover of Night, Disguise, Escape, Fade In A Crowd, Vanish, or Whisper Walk. In addition, while directly pursuing the target of the Arrest Warrant, the G-Man may spend 10 Mind Points to temporarily delay the effects of Nail, Slowed Steps, Body Lock, Mangle Limb attacks to the legs or other movement impairing effects for  ve minutes. Each effect must be delayed separately, and an effect may only be delayed once with this skill. Numerical damage and effects that do not directly impair movement are not affected. Skills and other defenses cannot be called against the delayed effects.
Bound By Law
Catching criminals doesn’t matter much if you can’t hold onto them, and cases can’t be made if evidence goes missing or forgeries are slipped into evidence. Once a G-Man learns this Skill they have been trained in pre-Fall practices of securing and improving locking mechanisms to prevent witnesses from being murdered or locked boxes from being opened. A G-Man may spend at least 10 Mind Points to place an of cial “Bound By Law” notice on an in-game crafted lock, which doubles the Crafts Level of the lock for three days. Multiple uses of Bound by Law may be expended on the same lock, each doubling the improved Crafts Level of the lock. As an example a Crafts 5 lock becomes a Crafts 10 lock on the  rst application of Bound By Law and then becomes a Crafts 20 lock on the second application of Bound By Law. If a Shade wishes to access a secured room using Lurking Threat, they must spend as many Mind Points as were spent on Bound By Law to do so, in addition to the normal cost of the Skill.
Last but not least, the G-Man may spend 10 Mind Points and declare that a target already subjected to Tie Binds is now Bound By Law. Removing the binds from this target now requires a full 10 minutes of roleplaying freeing them or destroying their bonds. The G-Man does not need to be the one who placed the Tie Binds skill on the target.
Forensic Rituals
When it comes to catching criminals, most sheriffs rely on three solutions: wringing a confession out of a suspected criminal,  nding an eyewitness to tell the tale, or catching the crook in the act. However, many G-Men learn some of the ancient rituals of their investigative forbears and have access to tools most lawmen can only dream about, allowing them to return to the scene of a crime and  nd crucial evidence days after the occurrence of a crime. After traveling to the scene of a crime and spending a minimum of 1 hour going over it with forensic tools such as magnifying glasses, plaster molds,  ngerprint powder, tweezers and the like, as well as sketching it or staging re-creations of the crime, the G-Man may travel to Logistics to “examine their  ndings” and ask a Storyteller up to two questions about a crime that has taken place. Forensic tools such as a magnifying glass, plaster mold kit, and tweezers may be created with the generic crafting rules.
Each question costs 10 Mind Points, and does not receive a direct answer as such, but rather generates a special item card representing physical evidence collected
in relation to this question. (These item cards have no value and cannot be used as crafting materials or creature comforts, but are revealed to be genuine if examined
by the relevant skills.) Questions must be able to be reasonably answered by physical forensic evidence – a G-Man might be able to judge that a killer was enraged by the presence of massive blood splatter on the walls, for instance, but probably not that
the killer was enraged over the theft of a land deed by the victim’s great-grandfather. (When in doubt, think means more than motive- this skill is good at who, what, where and when, but not really why.) Ultimately the Staff Member is the  nal arbiter of what is allowed, but should remember the technological limitations of the period even for the G-Men and interpret these guidelines narrowly in order to avoid making this Skill seem totally omniscient.

261
 For example, a dedicated G-Man goes to a murder scene, roleplays the forensic rituals and spends 20 Mind Points to ask 2 questions. For the  rst question, she asks “What was the murder weapon?” and receives an Item Card for “spent shotgun shells,” which she found at the scene. For her next question, she asks, “Was anyone here other than the killer and the victim” and receives a card “plaster cast of one set of tracks, found near shotgun shells.” She now knows the killer used a shotgun and apparently acted alone.
This skill offers a rare chance to gather concrete physical evidence of a crime that has been committed, but it must be monitored closely to ensure that the questions are appropriate to the investigative methods and the limits of the available technology. Relatively simple evidence collection such as blood,  ngerprints, plaster casts, simple trace evidence and the like are  ne, but sophisticated tools like DNA evidence, electron microscopes and gas chromatography are right out. Likewise, the Storyteller may limit the number of possible questions asked if the crime occurred a very long time ago or took place in a heavily traveled area, representing how the available evidence has been lost over time.
The Oath
Before they do anything else, all G-Men take a solemn oath to serve the Federally Bonded Inquisition. Coming as it does at the end of an intense period of training and indoctrination, this commitment gives them a powerful ability to resist temptation, intimidation and even some forms of psionic manipulation. Once this skill is learned, the agent becomes immune to all fear and terror effects, as well as Memory Lapse. In addition, the cost to use Mind Resistance is cut in half. Once a G-Man has taken The Oath, they are required to recite the following abridged version every morning before they start their day and every night when they  nish their days work: “I solemnly swear to uphold the code of the Federally Bonded Inquisition, though it cost me my life.”
Trained Inquisitor
When G-Men are called in to investigate a case, even hardened criminals  nd it dif cult to conceal the truth. Any time a survivor attempts to use the Lie or Trickster Mind skill in their presence, the G-Man may spend 20 Mind Points and declare “Trained Inquisitor, Lie Negated.” The target must then tell the truth – they cannot attempt to lie again regarding that question. In addition, the G-Man and any others present are aware the target attempted to lie, and may react accordingly. Alternately, the G-Man may spend 20 Mind Points to declare “Trained Inquisitor, Negate Mind Resistance” to cancel a target’s use of Mind Resistance to avoid answering a question under Torture.
Note that the G-Man does not have to be the one using Torture or Interrogate on a target, merely be present while it is taking place.
262

 
263
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health First Requirement: Either Caravan
Driver Profession, Hookup Profession, Merchant Profession, Engineer Profession, Mad Scientist Profession, Diesel Jock Strain, or Rover Strain
Second Requirement: Building Tomorrow, Brewing, or Forging the Future
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Cost Prerequisite
Gear Head
Eternal Forge 10 Internal Hearth 10 Hotrod Junkie 10 The Outside Chance 10 Servant of Iron 10
    Around these settlements vehicles aren’t worth shit. As soon as you get
anywhere near a town the ground is so choppy and the soil so soaked in blood
that there is no way to get your gear grinder anywhere in the area. However,
once you get some distance outside of town; only then is when a Gear Head can
be free. Caravan Drivers of the horseless carriage, riders of the iron horses,
and masters of the diesel clouds, the Gear Heads ride from frontier to frontier
in days instead of weeks, weeks instead of months, and months instead of years.
A community of men and women that ride the open roads looking for means of
traveling faster, with more style, and with better performance. Gear Heads wear
signature icons of their motor loyalty, vehicle style, and pro ciency.
Advanced Skills
Eternal Forge
    Gear Heads almost never have the advantage of having somewhere to stop
to do their repairs, so Gear Heads have become masters of doing repairs on
the  y with makeshift parts and making do with damn near broken equipment.
After pulling together a suitable roleplay space of 10 feet by 10 feet with
appropriate makeshift tools and props; a Gear Head may expend 10 Mind Points to
create a Basic Forge, Workbench, or Still that will last until the next 12s.
This Forge must have no less than 6 pieces of automobile memorabilia in it to
work, and a Gear Head with the Eternal Forge Skill must be within line of site
of the created work space for that work space to function (even if asleep).
When activating this Skill the Gear Head with the Eternal Forge must report to
Logistics for a short term Gizmo card to represent their work space.
264

 Internal Hearth
    Gear Heads are a tight community of thrill seekers and nomads, and with that
in mind, it is not uncommon for them to close ranks against outsiders when one
of their own is threatened. Once per event a Gear Head with the Internal Hearth
advanced Skill may call on fellow friends of the road for a few hours of help.
When activated the Gear Head with the Internal Hearth advancement must spend 20
Mind Points and register that they are calling for help at Logistics. One hour
after the Skill is activated (regardless if the player is ready or not) the
Gear Head using Internal Hearth must report to Logistics to register that their
character is out on the road working connections for 4 hours. During the 4 hour
period that the character is out of play the Gear Head using Internal Hearth
is required to perform a standard 4 hour NPC shift with no Assistance Points
bene t. This NPC shift cannot be the player’s standard NPC shift, and must be an
additional full shift. Once the NPC shift is done, the character using Internal
Hearth may use the following skills as if they have just checked into game:
Deep Pockets, Trade Ties, or Bankrolling. In addition, any current Trade Tie
cards that must be used at Check In may be used at this time. Internal Hearth
may only be used once per event.
Hotrod Junkie
    There is a passion that burns deep within a Gear Head that can only be sated
with fast cars, big engines, and dangerous terrain. It is common place for Gear
Heads to race each other for money or car parts. At check in a Gear Head with
the Hotrod Junkie advanced Skill can choose to race for money or Scrap, and
wager anywhere between 1-20 local currency, 1-20 Basic Scrap, 1-10 Uncommon
Scrap, or 1-5 Rare Scrap. The racer then rolls 1d10 against the Check In Marshal
3 times. If the player wins 2 out of 3 rolls (rolling higher, player loses on
a tie) than the risked bet is doubled. If the player loses 2 out of 3 rolls,
the risked bet is lost. If the player loses 3 out of 3 rolls, the player owes a
debt for vehicle repairs equal to 1/2 of the bet rounded down... and may not use
Hotrod Junkie again until that debt is paid. If a debt goes two months unpaid,
NPC collectors may come to collect the debt forcibly.
The Outside Chance
    Some say that if you travel far enough, fast enough, that you can actually
outrun your problems. The truth of the matter is that you can never outrun your
problems as long as you stop at some point. Most Gear Heads prefer to stay on
the road, never touching down in a place longer than a few days before hitting
the trail again. The Gear Head that has learned The Outside Chance has a nose
for trouble, and can tell when the noose is about to be dropped over there head.
By spending 20 Mind Points and 4 Rare Scrap a Gear Head with The Outside Chance
may spend 20 minutes role playing setting up a dummy in their sleeping area. The
Gear Head with The Outside Chance must then go to Logistics and receive a Gizmo
card for ‘a trapped dummy’ which will do 50  re damage to a 20 foot radius if
attacked.
    When the player goes to sleep, if they are attacked while sleeping, instead
of  ghting back the player simply shows the Gizmo card and declares the damage
to everyone in the area. Each Gizmo card will be dated for 1 days use, and will
not be provided unless the required Scrap and expenditure has been registered
on the back of a the character sheet as well as signed by a Staff Member in
Logistics. The character that used The Outside Chance must then put on a OOC
headband, and may return to sleep. This Skill may only be used just prior to
the PC actually going to sleep, may not be moved once it is set, and may only be
used once per an event.

265
 Servant of Iron
    With an understanding of complex motor use, a Gear Head has the ability to
perform feats of mechanical enhancement that most people see as nothing short of
magic. By expending 20 Mind Points and spending 30 minutes role playing crafting
at either a workbench or a forge, a Gear Head with the Servant of Iron can
perform any of the following mechanical enhancements:
Name
Hotrod Lead
Thrower
Rat Fink
Turbo Blade
Hopped Up
MotorBow
Dragula
Javelins
6 Cylinder
Still
Cost
Scrap: Go Fast Motor x4
Crafts 5 Firearm
Scrap: Go Fast Motor x4
Crafts 5 Melee Weapon
Scrap: Go Fast Motor x3
Crafts 5 Bow
Scrap: Chrome x 3
Crafts 5 Javelin
Scrap: Chrome x2
Basic Still
Effect
Firearm becomes a Hotrod Lead Thrower
and gains a 6 month expiration date.
Weapon  res at a +2 to base damage.
When item expires, item becomes a
creature comfort ‘Collectable Car
Memorabilia” card.
Melee becomes a Rat Fink Turbo Blade
of appropriate size and the weapon
gains a 6 month expiration date.
Weapon swings at a +2 to base damage.
When item expires, item becomes a
creature comfort ‘Collectable Car
Memorabilia” card.
Bow becomes a Hopped Up MotorBow and
gains a 6 month expiration date.
Weapon  res at a +4 to base damage.
When item expires, item becomes a
creature comfort ‘Collectable Car
Memorabilia” card.
Javelin becomes a Dragula Javelin
and gains a 6 month expiration date.
Weapon throws for +4 to base damage.
When item expires, item becomes a
creature comfort ‘Collectable Car
Memorabilia” card.
Still becomes a 6 Cylinder Still and
gains a 6 month expiration date. Still
can only be used to make crafts 5+
master brewed brews. 6 Cylinder Still
allows for master crafted brews to
allow for up to 16 Mind Points to be
expended into Brew Master instead of
the normal cap of 10.
266

 Name
Auto Shop
Cost
Scrap: Chrome x1
Scrap: Pointy Tools x1
Scrap: Go Fast Motor x1
Gizmo: Glue x1
Basic Forge
Scrap: Chrome x2
Scrap: Pointy Tools x2
Scrap: Go Fast Motor x1
Basic Workbench
Effect
Basic Forge becomes an Auto Shop and
Gains a 6 month expiration date. Auto
Shop (10 ftx 10 ft space, unable to
be moved) allows all forged items to
have an additional 2 months added to
projects forged in the Auto shop with
the Expenditure of Named Scrap Chrome
x1 per project. All projects made this
way have the words ‘Chrome Plated’
added before the name of the engineer
project.
Basic Workbench becomes a Big Daddy
Fixit kit and gains a 6 month
expiration date. Big Daddies Fixit
Kit requires a portable folding at
least 3ftx2ftx2ft metal tool box. This
tool box works as a basic workbench
however has a carry rate of zero.
In addition, all uses of Improve or Repair skills require   standard Mind Points (rounded down) to perform with the expenditure of Named Scrap: Chrome x1. All items repaired this way have the description ‘Chrome Plated’ added before the items description and have their value increased by 5 after the  rst time they become Chrome Plated.
Big Daddies
Fixit Kit

267
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health One of the following Professions:
Doctor
Sawbones
    One of the following Professions:
        Scavenger
        Thief
        Assassin
        Jones
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Cost Prerequisite
Grave Robber
Trinkets of the Past 10
Replacement Parts 10
Gene Splicer 5
(per process)
Last Dance 10
    Morbid, dark, and misunderstood by nearly everyone, Grave Robbers oversee
the process of death and rebirth. They ensure that the dead have resolved their
 nal ties to this world, and that the living do not rush through death’s doors
prematurely.
Restrictions
    Grave Robbers are trans xed by the process of death, and will do anything to
ensure that the living keep living and the dead remain dead. Grave Robbers will
never allow someone they know to walk the earth as one of the restless dead and
will take any opportunity to bring  nal closure to any that somehow escape.
Advanced Skills
Trinkets of the Past
    Grave Robbers understand that the most important thing that can be recovered
from the dead is the knowledge and skills they once had. A Grave Robber may take
a recently deceased corpse, still within one week of suffering  nal termination,
and learn the secrets and Skills that this body once possessed. After 1 hour
of roleplaying vivisecting a zombie, a Grave Robber may spend 10 Mind Points
and register the action with Logistics. At that point Logistics will review the
sheet of the deceased and inform the Grave Robber what Skills and Professions
the deceased possessed. The Grave Robber may then spend Experience Points as if
the corpse had acted as a teacher. Standard teaching restrictions apply.
Replacement Parts
    Given their resistant nature, the infected dead often produce some of the
best harvests for body parts. In particular, a trade secret of Grave Robbers
is that the spinal  uid of the deceased sometimes contains small amounts of a
glowing blue liquid. If a Grave Robber has access to a deceased humanoid that
has not been harvested, they may spend 10 minutes and 5 Mind Points attempting
to extract this substance from a corpse’s spine. After harvesting an undead,
the Grave Robber may go to Logistics where they have a 33% chance of harvesting
liquid from low-level threats and up to a 66% chance for high level threats. If
268

 the harvesting is successful a Gizmo card for ‘Glowing Blue Liquid’ is given.
The liquid is not only important in many rare brews, but also can be injected to
alter the subject’s metabolism, drastically slowing the bleeding process. Once
injected the substance is completely used, and for the duration of 1 hour, the
recipient of the injection takes 20 minutes to Bleed Out instead of 5 minutes.
Gene Splicer
    Medical ability only can go so far... until new boundaries must be crossed.
Gene Splicer allows a Grave Robber to experiment beyond the realm of standard
science and create unique medical procedures. Each procedure must be purchased
individually at 5 Experience Points each. A Gene Splicer may also create a new
procedure in between events at the cost of 5 Experience Points (new procedures
subject to branch and network approval before entering play):
Procedure
Lung Expansion
Thick Skin
Eau De Zombie
Ice Veins
Infectus Mordus
Mechanic
Spend 10 Mind Points and 30 minutes operating on a willing
subject; target becomes immune to airborne toxins until the
next Twelves.
Spend 10 Mind Points and 30 minutes operating on a willing
subject; target gains 20 Armor points of armored skin until
the next Twelves.
Spend 10 Mind Points and 30 minutes operating on a willing
subject; target gains one use of ‘Repulse’ against undead.
When announced, all undead must stay at least 10 paces away
as long as the user has their hand in the air. If not used
by the next Twelves, the bene t is lost.
Spend 10 Mind Points and 30 minutes operating on a willing
subject; target gains immunity to poisons until the next
Twelves.
Spend 10 Mind Points and 1 Hour working a target through
their own personal psycho-reactant hell. Process requires
unique item: Glowing Tank Heart and requires 1 month
preparation before the process can be done. (Staff must be
noti ed 1 month in advance.) Process may only be done to an
individual once every twelve months. If successful, Infectus
Mordus will return a point of Infection Rate to the target.
The player receiving the advantage of Infectus Mordus
(regaining an Infection) must have this procedure done at
their home game with the permission of their home games
director prior to use of Infectus Mordus.
Last Dance
    A Grave Robber is not named for the actions they take harvesting bodies,
but instead by application of this amazing skill. A Grave Robber with this Skill
may expend 20 Mind Points and 10 minutes applying medical procedures over the
body of someone who has reached  nal death within the past 3 hours. If the Grave
Robber activates the Last Dance, the deceased returns to life, but only for the
next 24 hours. After the 24 hours pass or another death occurs, the animated
person falls, never able to be revived again. This person will not rise as any
form of zombie, and instead will return to the natural cycle of life and death.

269
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health One of the following Professions:
        Sniper
        Gun Slinger
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Magic Bullet Bullet Dodger Vital Fire Gun-Fu Ricochet
Cost Prerequisite
10
10
10
10
10 Gun-Fu
Marksman
You are far beyond the point of knowing that you squeeze instead of snap. You know every spring, bolt, and bore of every one of your weapons. You understand that a gun is not a tool, but instead an extension of your being, one that is capable of making problems go away. You are capable of amazing feats when it comes to shooting, and you can be counted on never miss your target. You are a true Marksman.
Advanced Skills
Bullet Dodger
By expending 10 Mind Points, a Marksman is immune to all non-psionic ranged attacks for 5 minutes. This includes Sniped Shots and Scatter Shots, even advanced Skills such as Vital Fire.
Gun-Fu
This Skill makes traditional Martial Artists shake their heads; however, it is indisputably impressive on the  eld of battle. With the purchase of this Skill, an additional profession slot opens for a Marksman that may only be used to gain the profession ‘Martial Artist’. Gun-Fu overrides any Strain restriction that would normally prevent a Marksman from being able to learn the Martial Artist profession. Gun-Fu allows a Marksman to learn and use Skills from the Martial Artist profession; however, instead of using your hands you use boffer safe representations of your  rearms to deliver these strikes. The brawling skill of Iron Fists cannot be applied to  rearms in regards to swinging boffer safe  rearm representations as your ‘beaters’. This Skill may not be used unless the Marksman is currently wielding a  rearm of at least Crafts Level 5.
Magic Bullet
A Marksman with this talent is a sniper without equal, able to not only  re accurately but discretely. They may expend 5 Mind Points to make a single ranged  rearms attack that does not cause them to break stealth Skills such as Cover of Night, Fade in a Crowd, or Vanish. In addition, this Skill obscures what direction a shot came from, preventing others from homing in on their position by following the sound of the shot (marshal may be required to run Snipe Shot Skill call, please be sure to inform marshals before intending to use this Skill). This Skill may only be used once every 5 minutes. This Skill may not be used unless the Marksman is currently wielding a  rearm of at least crafts level 5.
270

 Ricochet
    Incoming  re isn’t nearly as scary when you know how to work the angles to
your advantage. By declaring ‘RICOCHET!’ and spending 10 Mind Points, a Marksman
with a bolt action weapon in hand can re ect one non-psionic ranged attack back
at is user as a Sniped Shot. This projectile must have passed within a 180
degree line of sight arc of the Marksman. This re ected shot is considered to
not only have been blocked, but all effects tied to the attack are then applied
to the initial attacker. (The new target may use defensive Skills as normal.)
For example, if the original shot had ‘Concentrated Fire, Weapon! Destroy
Weapon!’ added onto it, then the Richochet will still carry those effects
along with the Sniped Shot accuracy. This Skill may not be used to re ect non-
ballistic ranged attacks, Area of Effect attacks or melee attacks. This Skill
may not be used unless the Marksman is currently wielding a  rearm of at least
crafts level 5.
Vital Fire
    Fields of  re are great, but a true Marksman only needs one well-placed
bullet to get the job done. This skill allows a Marksman to expend 10 Mind
Points and make a single, devastating ranged attack that in icts 50 Damage.
Vital Fire may be linked to other legal skills with appropriate expenditures,
such as Sniped Shot. However, this skill may only be used once per twelves. This
shot may be avoided with Skills that allow for the de ection or avoidance of
other ranged attacks, so make sure you save this shot for when it counts! This
Skill may not be used unless the Marksman is currently wielding a  rearm of at
least Crafts Level 5.

271
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health One of the following Professions:
        Soldier
        Guard
        Of cer
        Hunter
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Dispatch
Hired Muscle
In the Zone Interceptor Training Ground
Cost Prerequisite
10 10 10 10 10
Mercenary
    In a world where every day brings dozens of threats to your very life,
sometimes you need help to survive, and Mercenaries are just such a necessary
evil. Mercenaries are combatants trained in a variety of battle eld strategies,
paid well to keep less violent survivors alive. Skilled soldiers, well-trained
guards, legendary weapons experts, and most of all not afraid of getting
their hands dirty... Mercenaries are an amoral answer to a deadly question.
Mercenaries are all seasoned combatants, and because of that, they all are jaded
in regards to death. It is dif cult to feel pain or sorrow in regards to what it
is that you do for a living every single day.
Advanced Skills
Dispatch
    By the time someone has become a successful Mercenary, chances are that
they have killed thousands of zombies. Mercenaries can kill zombies in their
sleep- sometimes literally. By expending 10 Mind Points, a Mercenary with this
skill can call ‘Dispatch’ on a single undead target within two paces. No other
effort is required; simply point and declare this Skill’s use. This attack
simultaneously in icts 100 points of unavoidable damage to a single undead
target as well as activates the Double Tap Skill.
Hired Muscle
    What is better than one incredibly well-trained Mercenary? How about two
or three of them? This Skill costs 10 Mind Points to activate, and allows the
user to travel to Logistics and declare that they are outsourcing some Hired
Muscle. The user of this Skill will then be given three price options for hiring
NPC assistance. For 20 Trade Notes, an experienced combatant will help you for
one hour. For 40 Trade Notes, an experienced mercenary will come to help for
an hour. For 60 Trade Notes, a hired legend will come to assist you for an
hour... a legend that has at least maxed out Mercenary and perhaps has touched
on a second Advanced Profession. Soldiers hired through this Skill will follow
simple directions, but will not simply charge off to their deaths. At times, due
to story reasons, Hired Muscle may not be available or may take more time to
arrive. If Hired Muscle is not available, then the 10 Mind Point expenditure is
refunded.
272

 In The Zone
    Mercenaries do one thing incredibly well, namely provide excessive violence
as a solution to problems. Mercenaries kill so well, in fact, that other  ghters
around them perform better when they follow their lead. A Mercenary with this
Skill may expend 10 Mind Points and name two ‘Battle Buddies’ who each must have
less than 6 months of play. (Ask how many months someone has been in town.) As
long as these two are each within  ve feet of the Mercenary, all three members
gain the following advantages for up to one hour: 10 minute Bleed Out period
instead of the standard 5 minute, all melee damage swung by ‘Battle Buddies’
increased by 2 Damage, and all damage received by those In The Zone is reduced
by 2. This Skill may not be stacked multiple times on the same target, and a
Mercenary using this Skill multiple times still only receives a single bonus to
damage reduction, Bleed Out time, and melee damage.
Interceptor
    Melee combat is one of the most reliable means of martial interaction,
however surviving until you reach melee range is the dif cult part. With this
skill a Mercenary with a melee weapon in hand can spend 5 Mind Points and
declare ‘INTERCEPTOR!’ This immediately re ects one non-psionic ranged attack
whose projectile has passed within arm’s reach of the Mercenary, back at its
user as a Sniped Shot. This re ected shot is considered to not only have been
blocked, but all effects tied to the attack are then applied to the initial
attacker. (The new target may use defensive Skills as normal.) For example, if
the original shot had ‘Concentrated Fire, Weapon! Disarming Shot!’ added onto
it, then the Interceptor will still carry those effects along with Sniped Shot
accuracy. This Skill may not be used to intercept Murder Most Foul, psionic
attacks, or non-ballistic ranged attacks such as Area of Effect attacks.
Training Ground
    Those who kill for a living live a dif cult lifestyle, and so work
constantly to toughen themselves up enough to survive the next challenge. This
Skill may be purchased up to  ve times, and for each time it is purchased, the
Mercenary gains 15 permanent Health Points instead of the standard 10 that would
be gained at the same cost.

273
 Requirements Strain: Merican
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Health
One of the following Professions:
        Guard
        Of cer
        Gun Slinger
        Hunter
        Primitive
        Pugilist
        Soldier
        Thug
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Cost Prerequisite
Merican Ba-Das
Rebel Yell 10
Cheeseburger and a 10 Six Pack
Hail of Bullets 10 Walk It Off 10 Dumb Luck 10
    Merican Ba-Das have problems understanding overwhelming odds, being told
they cannot do something, and understanding when to quit. Merican Ba-Das do not
retreat, they do not surrender, and they do not know when they are in a losing
situation. Merican Ba-Das cannot retreat from a combat under their own volition.
Advanced Skills
Rebel Yell
    Sometimes people just need a little encouragement to get a move on. The user
of this Skill may expend 20 Mind Points and let out a loud rallying cry. Any
non-Red Star ally who hears the Rebel Yell receives 10 points of Armor, heals
10 Health Points, and is immune to Fear and Terror effects for the duration of
the next hour. If an ally is currently Bleeding Out, they immediately return to
10 Health Points and can get to their feet. Rebel Yell effects do not stack,
and targets may only receive the bene ts of one Rebel Yell once a 12s. When
possible, it is recommended to talk over this Skill and its bene ts with allies
in advance, in order to minimize confusion and maximize its effectiveness in the
 eld.
Cheese Burger and a Six Pack
    A Merican Ba-Das is a unique creature, fueled by bizarre combinations of
food and drink. A Merican Ba-Das can consume any one twelve ounce brewed potion
and expend 10 Mind Points. The Merican Ba-Das that does so regains 20 Health
Points and ignores the effects of the brewed substance. This declaration must
occur before substance is consumed. If the player of a Merican Ba-Das actually
chugs a twelve ounce liquid –water recommended, don’t hurt yourself  and then
follows the consumption with either a witty phrase or a subsequent machismo act,
such as crushing the can against their forehead, then the Merican Ba-Das may
instead regain 25 Health Points and ignore the effect of the brewed substance.
274

 Hail of Bullets
    Bullets are little chunks of  ying death that really ruin your day, but
the Merican Ba-Das simply denies that something so small could cause such big
problems. By expending 20 Mind Points, and spending 10 minutes focusing on how
heroic the Merican Ba-Das is about to be, the user can activate Hail of Bullets.
For 1 hour, the  rst 10 projectiles that hit the user are considered misses.
When a successful projectile hit is nulli ed with this Skill, the user must
loudly declare “Hail No!” This Skill can be used to nullify Sniped Shots and
other effects which remove the need for a packet to be thrown. Hail of Bullets
may be bestowed to another person as long as A) that person sits and listens
to at least a 10 minute pep talk or ‘plan’ from the Merican Ba-Das and B) the
target is not a Red Star. Each extra target receiving this Skill’s bene ts
requires an additional 10 Mind Points.
Walk it Off
    Sometimes a Merican Ba-Das is too proud to fall down or admit something
hurts. By expending 5 Mind Points a Merican Ba-Das can ignore the effects of
a Mangled limb for 10 minutes. The limb is still broken, as Walk It Off does
not repair or negate the limb mangling effect, and after 10 minutes will again
become useless again. This Skill may be activated multiple times in a row to
extend use of a limb, and may be activated multiple times to ignore multiple
broken limbs.
Dumb Luck
Ba-Das’s are great at opening up worlds of hurt and doing incredibly
brave (read: dumb) things, but with all that machismo, the  ner mental skills often drop to the wayside. Fortunately Merican Ba-Das’s tend to bene t from more than their share of dumb luck. If the SCIENCE! Skill is available for use, a Merican Ba-Das may spend 2 times the listed SCIENCE! Mind Point cost
to receive the bene t of the Skill for that particular instance or invention. While this activation doesn’t mean the Ba-Das completely understands what is going on, it does allow them to get a ‘hunch’ which allows them to act on the information learned through the SCIENCE! Skill. (Needless to say, this skill often infuriates Tinkers, Engineers, Mad Scientists, and other actual educated professions.) In addition, a Ba-Das may spend 10 Mind Points to activate this Skill and become immune to psionic assaults for 5 minutes  once and for all proving matter over mind.

275
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 200 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health Skill: Mind Resistance
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Psionic Dissidence Burning Call
Fearless is the Still Mind
The Culling Wall One True Reality
Cost Prerequisite
10 10 10
10 10
Mind Killer
    There is a great beast that exists in this world; the Grave Mind.  An unborn
creature of intertwined  esh, fungus, and disease.  It keeps the world bound by
the strength of its mind.  It speaks to us through the infection in our blood,
it sees and lives through those we know as psions. We must  ght the Grave Mind
with the destruction of the psion.
Advanced Skills
Psionic Dissidence
    The Mind Killer is a person who has achieved a massive resistance to the
subconscious psionic control that exists in the fungal infection of the Grave
Mind.  By tapping into the psionic network as a whole, the Mind Killer can
cause excruciating pain to psionic beings.  To activate Psionic Dissidence,
a Mind Killer must take any of the following Gizmos in their hand: Flawed
Bloodied Crystal, Flawed Hardened Crystal, Flawed Irradiated Crystal, Flawed
Psionic Crystal, Flawed Warm Crystal, Perfect Bloodied Crystal, Perfect Hardened
Crystal, Perfect Irradiated Crystal, Perfect Psionic Crystal, or Perfect Warm
Crystal.  The Mind Killer spends 10 Mind Points and the Gizmo in their hand is
destroyed.  At which point the Mind Killer may immediately engage in a ranged
attack and call “Sniped Shot, Concentrated Fire HEAD - 30 Psion Bane”.  This
skill is treated as a thrown weapon for defensive purposes.
Burning Call
    The Mind Killer has learned to turn a Psion’s Power against them.  By
engaging a brawling strike (Knucks may be used) and spending 10 Mind Points, the
Mind Killer may call ‘Burning Call: Psion Absorb 30 Mind ’.  Burning Call may be
parried or blocked like any other strike; however, if the strike connects then
the Psion taking the hit loses 30 Mind Points as if mind and body where swapped.
Use of this power on the Grave Mind often results in both the user and the
target taking equal damage (with additional retribution from the Grave Mind).
Mind Killers should consider the potential body levels of the Grave Mind verses
their own body before attempting this.
276

 Fearless is the Still Mind
    Through extensive training the Mind Killer can learn to push away the
in uences of the Psion.  Whenever a Mind Killer with Fearless is the Still Mind
uses Mind Resistance, they may declare ‘Fearless is the Still Mind’ instead of
‘Mind Resistance’, making each use of the Mind Resistance Skill cause 10 minutes
of being immune to Psionic Skills or effects.  When struck with psionic attacks
after activating ‘Fearless is the Still Mind’, the character using this advanced
Skill must say ‘No Effect, Still Mind’ as a response.
The Culling Wall
    If the user of this Skill possesses the Skill ‘Bless Weapon’, they may
apply the effects of Culling Wall to the melee weapons and Knucks of others.
By spending 5 minutes focusing their strength of will, a Mind Killer with the
Culling Wall skill may spend 10 Mind Points to cause a blade to swing ‘Psion
Bane’ damage.  The effects of Psion Bane supersede any prior damage modi ers or
effects that were applied to the weapon, and these effects last 30 minutes.  Use
of ‘The Culling Wall’ should be recorded on the sheet of the character using
Culling Wall as well as the individual wielding the weapon.
One True Reality
    At times creatures such as Toy Boxes and Psionic beings cause altered
realities around them that draw others in.  A Mind Killer, if aware, may bring
these delusions to an abrupt end.  If a Mind Killer believes that reality is
being subverted around them, they may close their eyes and remain motionless for
5 minutes.  At the end of the 5 minutes, if they have not been interrupted, the
Mind Killer may spend 20 Mind Points and call ‘One True Reality: By My Voice All
Psionic Powers End’.  At this point all ongoing psionic powers come to an abrupt
end (this includes effects like Tranquility, Whisper Walk, Psychic Armor, and
Berserkers Mind).

277
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health One of the following Professions:
        Martial Artist
        Priest
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Hundred Fist Strike Flesh of Iron
Silent Introspection Shatter Strike
Air Strike
Cost Prerequisite
10
10
10
10 Brawling
Brawling
Monk
    A true Monk does not choose to  ght, but at times  nds that they must. They
can have many visual appearances depending on their faith, from traditional
vestments to battered survival gear to delicate  owing robes. Monks are living
embodiments of chosen teachings every day of their lives.
Advanced Skills
Hundred Fist Strike
    A practiced Monk has the capacity to achieve great things with very little
effort. My focusing their faith into a single hand strike, a Monk may cause
great damage to an undead target. By expending 10 Mind Points, the user of this
Skill may make a single brawling strike against an undead and declare ‘Hundred
Fist Strike’. If this strike connects, this strike considered is a  urry of ten
attacks with each strike in icting 10 points of Blessed damage. (While it might
seem odd to phrase it this way, it is not the same as a single 100 point strike,
as each attack may have damage reduction or other defenses applied against it
individually.) This strike does not work against living creatures, as those that
are living can still be redeemed, no matter how far they might have fallen.
Flesh of Iron
    Monks feel no need to hide behind armor, nor do they place their faith in
shields to de ect projectiles. The only armor that a Monk needs is their faith,
and their only shield is their doctrine. A Monk with this skill cannot wear
armor of any kind, nor can they carry a shield, but while they walk with an
icon of their faith visible - minimum size of three inches by three inches -
they reduce damage from any unblessed attacks by 3. This damage reduction also
negates effects from modi ers (such as poison or radiation) if the damage is
reduced to 0. If that damage is reduced to zero, the user of this skill must
announce ‘No Effect’ whenever strikes cause 0 points of damage. Flesh of Iron
works against psionic damage as well.
278

 Silent Introspection
    Much like those born to the Nation of Accensor, a Monk  nds both physical
recovery and renewal of purpose in their prayers. Use of this skill allows a
Monk to regain 5 Mind Points and 5 Health Points for every 30 minutes in active
prayer. If the Monk is already a member of the Nation of Accensor, they instead
recover 10 Health Points, 5 Mind Points, and are cured of all diseases they are
currently suffering.
Shatter Strike
    It is a truth known to all Monks that behind shields and armor, you will  nd
a child who is scared. With the expenditure of 20 Mind Points, and by connecting
with a single brawling strike, a Monk with this skill may declare ‘Shatter
Strike.’  Shatter Strike in icts 5 sequential Break Armors to a single target.
(A target may use defensive capabilities, but each use of Break Armor must
blocked individually.)  If that the armor was of very high quality (Crafts Level
5 or above), each break lowers the Crafts Level by 1 point and then breaks said
item. Example: Crafts Level 7 armor is hit with Shatter Strike. The armor drops
immediately to Crafts Level 2 armor and is broken.
Air Strike
    Legends are told of those who have achieved such a degree of focus, they are
able to knock projectiles out of the air with their bare hands. A Monk who has
mastered the technique of Air Strike is one of these legendary souls. When they
or someone within a pace of them is struck with a projectile, including Skill
powered shots, the Monk may expend 5 Mind Points and declare ‘Air Strike’ to
negate a single ranged attack.

279
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind
One of the following Professions:
        Charlatan
        Gambler
        Merchant
        Politician
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Mob Mentality Broken Mirrors Gilded Daisy Hung Jury Windfall
Cost Prerequisite
10 10 10 10 10
Mountebank
    Social manipulators on a grand scale, the Montebank is able to guide and
sway the public opinion of those around them. Montebanks live by their good
public name, and do not stand for public humiliation. Any time a Mountebank
is made to look like a fool in public by a person, the Mountebank gains the
derangement “Obsession: Revenge” on that person until such a time as that person
has been properly socially destroyed.
Advanced Skills
Mob Mentality
    While a mob doesn’t exactly provide ‘justice’ most of the time, it can be
an effective means to get things done. By stirring a mob with a rabble-rousing
speech that is at least 10 minutes in length, a Mountebank can expend 10 Mind
Points to bestow 5 Armor points to each person joining the Mountebank on a
single linear adventure. This bene t lasts for either 1 module or 2 hours,
whichever comes  rst. The Mountebank, in exchange, receives 2 Armor points
for each person that follows the Mountebank’s lead on this journey (up to 20
followers).
Broken Mirrors
    Sometimes there isn’t enough room in town for two hucksters, and a  ght
between alpha wolves is never pretty. At Check In, a Mountebank with this skill
that signs in before their target may immediately expend 20 Mind Points. (If
the target has already checked in before the Mountebank, this skill cannot be
used against them that month.) These Mind Points represent the smear campaign
and rumor mongering that an expert Mountebank is capable of, preventing the
target from bene tting from any Income skill levels. In addition, a green light
is placed on this target at the Black Market, offering top dollar for any items
taken from the target. This effect lasts 1 month, and must be reactivated again
at the next event.
280

 Gilded Daisy
    A  ower, no matter how sweet smelling, grows best in manure. The same is
true with regard to the Mountebank. By expending 20 Mind Points, a Mountebank
with this Skill can avoid being targeted by aggressive Skills, combat attacks,
and targeted ranged effects. (Environmental hazards and area of effect attacks
still function normally.) When this Skill is activated, the Mountebank must
raise their  st into the air and call out ‘GILDED DAISY!’ Until 30 minutes pass
or their hand is lowered, whichever comes  rst, the Mountebank may only move and
speak - they cannot utilize any other Skills. This Skill does not allow the user
to force others to move in any way, such as compelling a target to allow the
Mountebank through a blocked doorway, nor does it allow them take items that do
not belong to them without ending the effect. Automatically triggered effects
such as traps still affect the Mountebank, and immediately end the effects of
Gilded Daisy unless prevented by Bomb Awareness  rst. This Skill may only be
used once per Twelves.
Hung Jury
    People need a villain, and it’s a whole lot better if it’s not you. What’s
more, people uni ed against a common enemy are people are easily guided. By
vocalizing the reason for someone’s villainy, a Mountebank with this Skill may
expend 10 Mind Points and sling a packet at a target. With this last slung
insult, if the target is struck, the target of Hung Jury is unable to use the
following Skills for the duration of 1 hour: Beg For Life, Charisma, Escape,
Fade in a Crowd, or Vanish.
Windfall
    Sometimes you just need a lot of money in a hurry. With this skill, a
Mountebank can travel to Logistics and register that they are permanently losing
a level of Income to immediately gain double their number of local currency
they would normally receive in total at Check In. Burned levels of Income are
permanently lost, and must be repurchased later with Experience Points.

281
 Requirements
Strain: Nation of Accensor or
Remnant
Prior Expenditure: 200 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind
Requires baptism and active involvement in a primary (printed) faith.
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Cost Prerequisite
Nephilim
The Change 10
Avenging Angel Wrath
Broken Coils Meaning of Death
10 The Change
10 The Change, Brawling
10 The Change
The Change, Wrath
    It was said that a chosen few were sent to earth to be the tools of the all
mighty’s will. Some believe these chosen as blessed by the faith they follow,
others see them as those who have evolved to what mankind can truly become. The
truth is, if these be angels that walk the Earth, then it is by the will of all
the creators, season, and signals that their hands be always stained with blood.
A Nephilim must follow their religion’s mandates to the letter of the law, never
allowing area for gray in moments of judgment, and may never fall out of faith.
Nephilim are humorless, almost alien embodiments of their faith, that never
speak unless necessary.
    Advanced Skills
The Change
    The  rst trigger of a Nephilim, the change causes extreme physical
alterations to the body of the ascending Nephilim. Once this Skill is learned,
the Nephilim must undergo the following costume changes to represent changes
to the character’s body: solid color contact lenses must be worn at all times
(white, red, or green) as well as stains of faded red on both hands and
forearms. When The Change is learned the player undergoing The Change must
undergo a thirty minute blessing performed by a priest of their faith other
than themselves. During this time the hands of the character bleed and the eyes
change. The vocal chords of the character change and it becomes painful to
speak, making it so that Nephilim will not utter more than a few sentences an
hour.
    Once The Change has been learned, the Nephilim that has learned The Change
may spend 20 Mind Points to provide 20 points of spiritual armor to ANY (Red
Star included) single willing target within reach of touch. This armor stacks on
top of standard armor, however, cannot be applied to a target more than once per
12s and is depleted at the turn of the 12s. This armor is always the  rst armor
lost.
282

 Avenging Angel
    The undead are blight. To a Nephilim, the blight must be purged from this
world immediately. By expending 10 Mind Points and spending 5 minutes focusing
their wrath through their melee weapon or brawler, a Nephilim with the Avenging
Angel skill may have access to use of the Skill “Double Tap” for one hour at
zero activation cost.
Wrath
    If you read the stories of the old world it would seem that the wings of
an angel are always dipped in blood. Caught between the land of the living and
the land of the dead, a Nephilim is the embodiment of that concept. A Nephilim
which has learned the advanced skill of Wrath may spend 20 Mind Points and enact
a single brawler attack (brawling skill required). This single attack of Wrath
allows the player using the attack to declare “Slaughter”. The use of slaughter
may not be augmented with brews, Gizmos, weapons, or unique items however it may
be combined with ‘Charge’ or ‘Killing Ground’. Other damage stacks or augmenters
besides ‘Charge’ or ‘Killing Ground’ do not work with Wrath.
    The visual of this attack is that the Nephilim has reached forward and stuck
their hand through the torso of the intended target.
Broken Coils
    The inhuman and almost bestial nature of the Nephilim is never more apparent
than when the Advance Skill Broken Coils is used. Once per event by expending 20
Mind Points a Nephilim with this Skill may release an almost operatic blast of
inhuman screaming which can cause even the most focused  ghters to turn and  ee.
When used the Nephilim with this Skill must  rst give remain perfectly still for
thirty seconds with both arms extended outward at a 45 degree. After the half
minute passes the Nephilim with Broken Coils must give an extremely loud scream
and then yell ‘By my voice, Terror.’  This skill affects anyone who can hear the
voice (friend and foe), as per the basic psionic Skill ‘Nightmares’. This Skill
may only be used once per event, and may be resisted by mind resistance as per
normal psionic attack.
Meaning of Death
    The Nephilim do not die easy, nor do they die quietly. A Nephilim with the
advance skill Meaning of Death may choose to take another with them into the
depths of the Grave Mind. A Nephilim with this advanced skill, upon death, may
point at a target within line of sight. That target takes 50 unavoidable body
damage, and if this 50 damage is enough to drop the target in question, then
the target of Meaning of Death skips their Bleed Out period and is considered
immediately Killing Blowed. If the Nephilim with Meaning of Death is taking
their  nal death, the damage done is increased to 100 unavoidable body damage
and the target is considered Killing Blowed if this is enough to drop the
target. Once Meaning of Death has been used, no means will prevent the infection
rating from being removed from the Nephilims character sheet nor can the
Nephilim use means to regain that infection rate EVER.

283
 Requirements Strain: Red Star
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health One of the following Professions:
        Guard
        Of cer
        Gun Slinger
        Primitive
        Soldier
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Cost Prerequisite
Oni
Memories of Many 10
Guardian Spirit Walking Reminder Shared Strength Red Menace
10 Memories of Many
10 Memories of Many
10 Memories of Many
Memories of Many
    Sad is the wolf without a pack, dangerous is the beast without a herd. The
Oni, a ghost of what once was, continues on with the memories of their fallen
comrades with him. Every Red Star to die for the collective well-being of a Cell
is carried in the mind and actions of the Oni.
Advanced Skills
Memories of Many
    An Oni is a Red Star warrior who has the strength of his cell with him
at all times. With this skill an Oni may purchase a fourth and a  fth Basic
Profession, restricted to starting Professions of their cell mates (only may
learn from Red Star).
Guardian Spirit
    Oni may wash their hands in blood, but sometimes  nd solace in aiding a new
Red Star cell from afar. With this Skill, an Oni may watch over the youngest
cell member in the area like a Guardian Spirit. Once a new cell comes into the
city –‘new’ de ned as less than 6 months spent in play– or a single Red Star
member that has been in game for less than one year, an Oni may name that person
or cell as its ward. This declaration should be made to staff, as the Oni can
never let it be known that they protect a particular cell or Red Star member
- if it is discovered, the Guardian Spirit tie is lost. By spending 20 Mind
Points, the Oni may register with Logistics that they are activating this Skill.
For the duration of the next hour the Oni causes 2 additional damage with melee
weapon. The named ward will receive gifts from neighboring cells (sent via NPCs)
to assist the new cell mates in excelling in this dangerous world.
284

 Walking Reminder
    An Oni with this Skill is fueled by the memories of martyred Red Star that
fell in years past. By purchasing this Skill, an Oni may fashion a physical
‘death mask’ and wear it as a reminder of what can happen if a warrior cannot
protect another. This must be represented by a suitably impressive physical
representation. Once per Twelves, when an Oni wears their ceremonial death mask,
they may expend 20 Mind Points and become overwhelmed with a fearsome warrior’s
spirit. For the next 10 minutes the Oni gains use of the skills Bolt Action,
Bow, Florentine, Melee Weapon Small, Melee Weapon Standard, Melee Weapon Large,
Melee Weapon Two Handed, Throwing. During this 10 minutes usage of the Skill
‘Parry’ only costs 1 mind point.
Shared Strength
    An Oni with this Skill may expend twenty 20 Mind Points and 20 Health Points
to become a whirlwind of zombie slaying. For the next 10 strikes each strike
swung by the Oni has the effect “Kill Undead”. Each strike does zero damage to
non-undead; however each successfully landed blow in icts 100 points of damage
on undead targets.
Red Menace
    The Red Star was born in the  rst winters, and forged in the Nuclear Wynter.
An Oni has been forged one more time, in the blood of its fallen comrades. This
skill requires wearing their ’death mask’ and requires the expenditure of 20
Mind Points. When this skill is activated the Oni with this Skill takes zero
points of damage from all damage that has the ‘radiation’ modi er for thirty
minutes. In addition, after activating this power the Oni reduces all damage
received by 1 for 5 minutes.

285
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health One of the following Professions:
        Assassin
        Doctor
        Gambler
        Mad Scientist
        Ring Leader
        Engineer
And one of the following Professions: Charlatan
        Entertainer
        Politician
        Priest
        Teacher
Profession Bio
Skill Name Cost Prerequisite Henchman 10
Lair of Solitude 10
Criminal Network 10
Deus ex Machina 10 Raise the Standard 10
Overlord
It takes a unique sort of person to be able to step forward and take what it is that they want; it takes an Overlord to make others give it to you of their own free will. Power, Money, Control  these things are all that matter in a dead world.
Advanced Skills
Henchman
    What is an Overlord without faithful lackeys willing to endanger themselves
to try and please their lord? By expending 20 Mind Points, an Overlord can
contact one of their many faceless henchmen to complete a particular task- or
die trying. The Overlord must go to Logistics and register that they are using
this Skill. The task is speci ed by the Overlord, and the power level of the
henchman is assigned by the staff, who will then assign an NPC to portray the
minion. This NPC henchman will attempt to achieve the task assigned by the
Overlord. This task cannot take more than 4 hours, and if it is not completed
within 4 hours, the henchman commits suicide out of fear of the Overlord’s
wrath. This Skill may only be activated up twice per weekend, though these uses
may overlap in order to have two Henchmen (or perhaps a single, more powerful
one) active at the same time. In the unlikely event that staff cannot provide
an NPC to ful ll this task, the Overlord will be contacted and the Mind Points
spent on this Skill refunded.
286

 Lair of Solitude
    Overlords need their privacy, and go through some impressive steps to
ensure it. With this skill an Overlord can de ne a single private building as
their Lair of Solitude by expending 20 Mind Points. When this is activated the
Overlord may apply a single red ‘SECURITY LOCK 80’ Item Card to any and all
entrances to this building. These entrances cannot be breached, broken into, or
entered without the permission of the Overlord or the use of Skills which allow
for the opening of a Crafts Level 80 lock. Those allowed entrance and exit must
be listed on the back of the Item Card. This Skill does not ensure you a private
cabin logistically, and we often recommend that an Overlord with this Skill
bring a large multi-room tent with them to the event to ensure their privacy.
This Skill may not be applied to a building which has already been inhabited by
other players.
Criminal Network
    This Skill allows for a true Overlord to get others to do their bidding,
without them ever being aware of who’s pulling their strings. With an
expenditure of 20 Mind Points an Overlord can put a mark on a target’s head,
or a bounty on their life. The Overlord registers the action at Logistics,
and at the next gathering of either Murder Inc. or the Black Market, a price
will be offered on the target, anonymously billed as a ‘personal favor’ to
the organization as a whole. Marks of this sort are highly sought after, and
ful lling them a token of pride amongst thieves and murderers.
Deus ex Machina
    An Overlord can only be a power to be reckoned with as long as they are
alive. Most Overlords will take any precaution they can to ensure that they
live on. When an Overlord dies, they may permanently expend 10 Mind Points
– permanently as in removed from the player’s sheet – to prevent losing an
Infection Point. The Overlord has the option of returning to either the morgue
or their own Lair of Solitude (if one has been set) with 10 Health Points
instead of the standard 1 Health Point.
Raise the Standard
    An Overlord sits at the top of a pyramid, and bene ts greatly from the
structure beneath them. With Raise the Standard, an Overlord can spend 5 Mind
Points and craft a token. This token (often an arm band or insignia) can be
worn by willing underlings. This underling must be paid a minimum of 1 Local
Currency per event. In exchange, the Overlord gains 2 additional temporary
Mind Points and Health Points at the Twelves above their standard cap for each
underling they have at the event. These points go away the moment that an
underling doesn’t receive pay, willingly removes the token, or suffers a death.
An underling cannot serve multiple Overlords; in addition, if an underling ever
asks to be taught the Overlord Advanced Profession while in the service of an
Overlord, once the Profession is taught all points gained by Raise the Standard
instead go to the new pupil for the duration of that weekend.

287
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points One of the following Professions:
        Gun Slinger
        Hunter
        Primitive
        Soldier
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Aura of Hate Necessary Violence Killing Zone
Dark Intentions Sociopath Stalk
Cost Prerequisite
10 10 10 10 10
Reaper
    Reapers are not like normal people. While killing is part of day-to-day life
for many survivors, a Reaper genuinely enjoys it. In fact, it quickly becomes
their sole pleasure, and before long a Reaper lives only for the sound of the
chambered shell, the drawn blade, the falling body. They would be known as
psychopathic killers, if anyone left was educated enough to diagnose them- or
brave enough to say it. They are a terror on the battle eld; even as allies,
their psychotic drive is disturbing when the blood starts  ying.
Advanced Skills
Aura of Hate
    A Reaper is a bottomless well of hatred, rage, and the need to hurt others.
This psychosis is apparent even at a glance, but it does have its advantages.
By spending 10 Mind Points, calling out the name of their target and moving
directly at the focus of their hate, a Reaper can ignore up to twenty seconds’
worth of strikes and effects. They must be en route from their current position
to the location of their named target, they cannot deviate from this path, and
their target must be at least 10 paces away. Once the Reaper reaches their
target, the Aura of Hate drops and further strikes and effects count normally.
Necessary Violence
    There is no such thing as overkill in the eyes of a Reaper, only just the
right amount of force required to turn an enemy into a smear of paste on the
ground. By expending 10 Mind Points, a Reaper may proceed to do additional
damage to an enemy they have declared a Killing Blow upon. While this is simply
cosmetic for the fallen foe, the Reaper regains Health Points equal to the
highest total amount of damage done with a single strike. Necessary Violence may
be combined with damage augmenting Skills at the additional cost of the second
Skill.
288

 Killing Zone
    Watching a Reaper work on the  eld is like watching a wild animal chained
to a post... as soon as something comes into range, the Reaper introduces them
to a world of hurt. By expending 10 Mind Points a Reaper may plant both feet
on the ground and create a Killing Zone. While the Reaper loses the ability to
use the Skills Avoid and Charge, as well as the ability to actually move, all
melee damage in icted by the Reaper is increased by 10 points as long as they
remain stationary. (Skills that cause a Reaper to be moved from the spot or
knocked off their feet cause Killing Zone to come to an immediate end, if they
are used successfully.) These additional 10 points of damage stack on top of any
other Skills which normally in ict a set amount of damage. For example, using
Frightening Force while in a Killing Zone causes 40 points of damage instead of
30 points.
Dark Intentions
    The mind of a Reaper is a very dark place, and sometimes the rage and
hatred that boils within a Reaper leaks out, poisoning the world around them.
By spending 20 Mind Points, once per event a Reaper with this skill may let out
a maddened yell and gesture at a single target. That target immediately takes
20 points of unavoidable damage, applied to armor  rst and then Health. If
this shout is enough to drop the target into Bleed Out, then the Reaper regains
20 Mind Points, provided the target takes a death. If the target does not
immediately receive a Killing Blow or Bleed Out after  ve minutes, then the user
of Dark Intentions does not receive the 20 Mind Points.
Sociopath Stalk
    The mind of a monster often affects how they move, walk, talk, and interact
with the outside world. The Reaper may spend 10 Mind Points and become immune to
the effects of the following Skills for 10 minutes: Beg for Life, Charisma, Lie,
and any mind altering psionic Skills. Direct damage psionic attacks still affect
the Reaper normally.

289
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind
One of the following Professions:
Lore Skills
Profession Bio
Skill Name
House of Cards
Simple Deduction 10
Leap of Reason
Special: List requires at least 4 Strategy 10
Jones
Printer
Teacher
10 Simple Deduction
Educated
Sage
Pure Genius
    Knowledge is power, and those with the power will de ne not only the future
but also the past. Without knowledge there would be no guns, no swords, no
language, and no medicine. The mind is the only weapon a person truly needs.
Everything else is just an accessory.
Advanced Skills
House of Cards
    A Sage has spent very long time learning via texts, blueprints, and plain
life experiences. This knowledge isn’t purely theoretical either – whether it’s
 nding kinks in the armor or knowing where a creature is most vulnerable, it
is not uncommon for a Sage to have picked up a few tricks with dealing with
threats. Once per event, after spending 10 minutes doing nothing other than
observing a target – no other skills may be used during this time – a Sage can
spend 10 Mind Points and bestow the effects of ‘House of Cards’ on themselves or
a person within speaking distance. When ‘House of Cards’ is declared, the Sage
must identify the subject they have studied to the recipient of this Skill and
name a means of striking with a single weapon against that target: brawling,
melee, ranged, or psionic. If the recipient of this Skill attacks as the Sage
has instructed, the  rst attack against the studied target does two times the
normal damage, factored after any other damage increasing effects have been
added to the strike. This attack can still be defended against as per any other
attack, so timing is important! If this attack is avoided, parried, or misses,
‘House of Cards’ is still considered expended.
Simple Deduction
Sages are a wealth of knowledge, and combined with simple observation they can make logical deductions that offer startling insight into a target. When a Lore check could be made, a Sage can expend 5 Mind Points and declare ‘Simple Deduction’. The target of Simple Deduction must then state what Lore would be appropriate to identify the subject. If the Sage continues to watch the target of Simple Deduction for 30 minutes, without it being killed or being rendered unconscious, the Sage
may go to Logistics and spend Experience Points to learn this Lore as if they had learned from an appropriate teacher. Staff Members have  nal say regarding what Lore, if any, is appropriate to have been learned from the target in question.
290

Cost Prerequisite
10 Educated
 Leap of Reason
Knowing information about a person is the same as having a degree of power
over them. A Sage with this understanding can see the strengths in subjects- and weaknesses too. A Sage who has utilized Simple Deduction on a subject may choose
to immediately expend 10 Mind Points to activate Leap of Reason on the same target, provided it is not currently in or  eeing combat. When Leap of Reason is activated, the Sage should place their hand over their head as if out-of-character and quickly approach the target. (An out-of-game headband is recommended if available.) The Sage may then ask the target three yes or no questions related to target’s health, skill set, mindset, or current intent. The Sage may not ask about prior motives, past events, aspects the target cannot perceive, or vague concepts of morality.
The target can only respond with ‘yes’, ‘no’, or ‘non-applicable’ – they cannot elaborate further. This entire exchange is considered out of character – use of this Skill is not noticeable by others. It is not interrogation or psionic contact of any kind; these questions represent insights the Sage gleans from watching the target’s behavior. Some examples of questions that may be asked: “Do you intend
to attack us?”, “Would you help us?”, “Are you an assassin?”, “Are you currently suffering from any illnesses?”, “Do you intend to betray us?” After receiving the answers, the Sage returns to where they were when they activated Leap of Reason.
A hold is not called during the use of this Skill, and if the target is engaged
or endangered while the questions are being asked, Leap of Reason comes to an immediate end regardless of the number of answers given.
Strategy
During a  ght, most plans do not survive contact with the enemy. If properly orchestrated and organized, however, the  rst interaction with an enemy can change the  ow of the battle. A Sage with the Strategy Skill can organize a group and design a plan for them to follow. Group members need not be close allies, but cannot be actively at odds with each other for this Skill to work. Planning the attack requires at least 10 minutes of roleplay spent instructing the recipients
in the nuances of the plan; at the end of this time, the Sage orchestrating the Strategy can expend 20 Mind Points to bestow a damage reduction of 2 to all individuals within a ten foot radius. These individuals must have attended the brie ng and agreed to follow the plan in order to receive this bene t. This damage reduction lasts 1 hour, and may not be stacked with other damage reduction effects.
Pure Genius
    When a Sage reaches a certain point in their life, they understand that
they will never be able to reach and teach everyone they want to. The desire
to share wisdom –as well as the desire to get some of their own studies done
uninterrupted!– drives some Sages to create teaching manuals. By spending 10
Mind Points and 30 minutes roleplaying creating a text, as well as furnishing a
suitable prop, once per event a Sage may create a text that works as a single
use skill teacher. Learning follows all the normal rules; simply count the text
as the teacher. Pure Genius texts are considered unique item cards, and the
item card must have the crafting Sage’s character name and character number on
the text (for database purposes). The Sage must possess the Skill to be taught
by the text at time of its creation. If the Skill has particular prerequisites,
a student must also meet those in order to learn from the text. Literacy is a
requirement to learn from a Pure Genius text. Professions, Advanced Professions
and Advanced Profession Skills cannot be taught by these texts. A text can be
recreated with the Transcribe Skill at a cost of 10 Mind Points and 30 minutes
roleplaying copying the text. Transcription requirements must be written on the
card attached to the book at its creation. Pure Genius teaching manuals have an
expiration date of 1 year, and are not expended when used to teach.

291
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points One of the following Professions:
        Cook
        Doctor
        Priest
        Teacher
        Nation of Accensor
    Player character Red Star are
    banned from this profession
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Inner Peace Life Giver
Live Again Miracle Worker The Final Cause
Cost Prerequisite
10
10
10
10
10 Live Again
Saint
    It is unusual for a person to be able to survive when they hold the
interests of others as more important than their own. It is even more rare for
someone to survive long enough to be able to truly provide for the masses.
Advanced Skills
Life Giver
    All Saints, be they teachers or preachers by design, can heal those that
hurt. Once per event a Saint may expend 10 Mind Points and all remaining Health
Points and enter a 1 minute Bleed Out period. As this happens, the Saint loudly
announces ‘BY MY VOICE, HEAL ALL!’ All those who can hear the Saint, be they
ally or enemy, immediately return to full Health Points. Only those that hear
the initial call receive the effects; this effect may not be ‘telephoned’ to
others, so if people do not OOC hear the initial declaration, then they do not
receive the healing bene ts of this skill. The Saint may only have their Bleed
Out process stopped by Faith Healing (no other means will work). If the Saint
who has entered Bleed Out takes a death due to use of this Skill, all allies
within 5 feet of the Saint at the time of her death gain damage reduction 2 for
the next 30 minutes.
Inner Peace
    Filled with devotion to their cause, a Saint’s mind works differently than
those living a more everyday existence, and so they  nd themselves strangely
untouched by the fears and provocations of others. Their sense of self is simply
too strong. This Skill costs nothing to activate; however, after purchasing
it the Saint becomes totally immune to Charisma, Fear, Fearful Glare, Terror,
Challenge, and Body Puppet. When these Skills are used on the Saint, a serene
chant of ‘No Effect, Inner Peace’ is declared in response.
292

 Miracle Worker
    Tales of the truly pious being able to perform miracles are not uncommon,
nor are they unfounded. Saints with this level of piety must believe in one of
the established, organized religions, and through that faith they can cause
minor miracles to occur with the expenditure of 10 Mind Points and 20 minutes
spent roleplaying blessing a 10 foot radius area. This effect may only be used
once per event, and players may only receive the advantages of this Skill once
per event. This Skill requires the Saint’s player to have appropriate props and
effects to represent the accompanying visual manifestations.
Faith Followed
Church of Darwin
Church of Telling Visions
Cult of Fallow Hopes
Light of Hedon
Effect
The blessed area glows green for 10 minutes, and provides renewed strength and health to followers of Darwin who bask and pray in the holy glow. All followers of Darwin who enter this space refresh 5 Mind Points and 5 Health. Bless Weapon costs zero Mind Points to use during this time, if performed by a Priest of the Church of Darwin.
The blessed area glows a  ickering white for 10 minutes, providing renewed mental clarity to followers of the Telling Visions who  nd comfort in the static. All followers of Telling Visions who enter the space refresh 10 Mind Points. Bless Weapon costs zero Mind Points to use during this time, if performed by a Priest of Telling Visions.
The blessed area glows with a warm orange/yellow light for 10 minutes, and provides renewed strength and health to followers of the Fallow Hopes, who take solace in the  relight. All followers of Fallow Hopes who enter this space refresh 10 Health Points. Bless Weapon costs zero Mind Points to use during this time, if performed by a Priest of Fallow Hope.
A 30’ radius area glows with a multitude of colored lights for 10 minutes, as scented smoke  lls the area. This area renews followers of the Light of Hedon as they revel in this holy space. Followers of the Light of Hedon who enter this space regain 10 Mind Points. Bless Weapon costs zero Mind Points to use during this time, if performed by a Priest of the Light of Hedon.

293
 Faith Followed
Nuclear Family
Sainthood of Ashes
Effect
The blessed area glows with the light of many  ickering candles for 10 minutes, providing incredible unity to followers of the Nuclear Family who come together there. Those that bask in this light gain the Red Star (may not be turned against Nuclear Family members) advantage in regards to other members of the Nuclear Family for 24 hours.
For 10 minutes, three lanterns in the blessed area begin to glow so brightly that they are almost blinding to look at directly. All followers of the Sainthood of Ashes that touch one of these lanterns  nd themselves refocused in regards to their willingness to help others. All followers of the Sainthood of Ashes that enter this space regain 10 Mind Points and receive 10 points of enhanced armor that lasts until the next 12s. This armor is the  rst armor damaged or destroyed in combat and may not be repaired.
A tree in the blessed area begins to glow with faint white light, radiating peaceful energies that restore  agging spirits. A representative of each season may rest beneath this tree for 20 minutes; at
the end of this meditative period, they recover up to 30 Mind Points. Resting members may speak quietly, but cannot move or use skills that require more activity.
Loud music begins to play with no particular source, the songs tied to
the particular idol(s) that the Saint follows. All believers in the Kings Court who listen to at least 20 minutes of the music receive either damage reduction 1 or an increased damage of 1 for up to 3 hours, their choice.
Tribes of the Seasons
 Virtues of the Kings Court
Live Again
    At times, a Saint can place some of their own well-earned karma into
another, and by doing so turn back even death itself. Once per event, a Saint
may spend 20 Mind Points and 20 Health Points on someone who has died no more
than 5 minutes previously; if successful, that person returns to life, and does
not lose an Infection Rate. An individual receiving this effect begins their
death description with the game Director, and then sees the Saint guiding them
back to life. This Skill may not be used on Red Star.
294

 The Final Cause
    Every Saint lives piously and according to their beliefs; many of them also
have the opportunity to die helping others. At any time, a Saint with this Skill
may willingly choose  nal death, and leave a lasting memory with those around
them. This Skill may even be used while in Bleed Out. To use this Skill, the
Saint simply names an individual with their dying breath, and then travels to
Logistics to alert staff to their death as well as the use of this Skill. (The
Saint may also use this time to prepare suitable props and costuming for the
vision to follow, though they should not delay the vision more than absolutely
necessary.) The target of this Skill can be anywhere in game, though they must
be at the current event, and cannot be a secondary character to the Saint’s
player. This individual receives a  nal, one minute vision from the Saint, which
should be roleplayed by the deceased Saint. This vision is visible to everyone
around the target as well, and it is highly encouraged that steps be taken to
make it miraculous and awe-inspiring.
    When the Saint appears to the target, they may say whatever they like, but
as a game effect they may choose to ask if the target is willing to follow in
the Saint’s path. If the target agrees, they count as having effectively been
taught the Advanced Profession: Saint. This player has one year from the moment
of their vision to ful ll the requirements for the Saint profession; if they do
not do so, the path is lost forever and that player may never become a Saint.
Recipients of this Skill may not actually purchase the Advanced Profession or
its Skills until such a time as they meet its requirements. The moment all
requirements are met and the recipient purchases this Advanced Profession,
Logistics must be contacted. Before the next Twelves, the would-be Saint will
have their resolve tested. Failure in this test delays becoming a Saint until
the next event. Use of The Final Cause ignores the normal 6 month wait time for
teaching Advanced Professions.

295
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 200 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health One of the following Professions:
        Assassin
        Thief
        Spy
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Unseen Hands Lurking Threat Inner Circle Sandman
Never Here
Cost Prerequisite
10
10
10 Guild Member 10
10
Shadow
    There are those that live in the sun, and those that reside in the darkness.
Shadows do not allow themselves to get caught, they do not reveal themselves
outside of their criminal circles, they do not train those who are not worthy,
and they de nitely do not suffer failing Shadows to live.
Advanced Skills
Unseen Hands
    A master of the art of pilfering items undetected, a Shadow can effectively
utilize the Pick Pockets skill once per event, without the need for clothespins.
By spending 10 Mind Points, a Shadow may register with a Staff Member that they
will be using Unseen Hands on a particular person and a particular pocket or
container. The Shadow then just needs to stand next to the target for 1 minute.
Shortly after, a Staff Member will approach the victim and recover the stolen
goods to be held for the Shadow at Logistics.
Lurking Threat
    Most accidents happen within a mile of home- however 100% of all home
assaults happen there. Once per event, a Shadow can spend 20 Mind Points
to enter and/or exit a person’s home in a way that completely bypasses all
existing locks, traps, barricades or other deterrents to entry. (Only devices on
entrances are bypassed; interior traps or locks must be dealt with normally.)
The only exception is an Overlord’s special ‘Lair of Solitude’, which cannot be
penetrated by this Skill. Indeed, all locks, traps and barricades are completely
left untouched, leaving no sign of how someone bypassed them. If used to gain
access to a location, the Shadow must depart within 5 minutes; failure to do so
means that this Skill’s bene ts end and they must contend with any locks, traps
or barricades normally on their way out. If witnessed by onlookers, the user of
Lurking Threat should describe this Skill with phrases such as ‘I climb to the
roof, shimmy down the incredibly thin chimney, and vanish from sight’. Remember
that cabin raiding may require the presence of a member of the game staff.
296

 Inner Circle
Inner Circle membership is an honor that certain elite Shadows earn over time. Viewed as ‘made men’ of Murder Inc., Shadows with this Skill have the power to spare a life with a single word  or doom someone with the same. After reviewing the list at Logistics, they may remove any current contract with an expenditure of 10 Mind Points. No reason is needed or required– the Shadow’s word is enough. On the other hand, Inner Circle members may choose to spend
10 Mind Points to name a target as an ‘Honor Hunt’ for members of Murder Inc. ‘Honor Hunt’ targets are the highest prize offered to Murder Inc. members,
and the Shadow can certainly expect serious efforts will be made to ful ll that contract. A player with this Skill may only name one ‘Honor Hunt’ every 6 months.
Sandman
    A sleeping opponent is a vulnerable one; those that believe otherwise are
deluding themselves, as a Shadow is only too able to prove. A Shadow with this
Skill can only use it if they can reach melee range of a sleeping target without
waking them up. At this point, the Shadow may expend 20 Mind Points and make a
successful melee attack on the individual. The target takes 50 points of damage,
which ignores all forms of armor. This Skill is not a Killing Blow, but it does
have the effects of Choking Blow– the affected target cannot speak or use vocal
Skills, though they can still move. An individual struck by Sandman may not use
any Skills to avoid this damage.
Never Here
    This Skill is the last line defense for a Shadow about to be captured. By
spending 10 Mind Points, a Shadow can declare ‘NEVER HERE’ to escape from a
scene, vanishing in a puff of smoke. This Skill allows the Shadow to immediately
put on an out-of-game headband or place their hand over their head to signify
that they are no longer present, at which point they may walk to Logistics, who
will tell them where and when to reappear. This Skill may only be used once per
event.  Never Here may not be used by a character who is currently under the
effects of ‘Blinding’, ‘Nail’, or has both legs ‘Mangled’ or ‘Sundered’.

297
 Shepherd of the Land
Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 100 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health One of the following Professions:
        Cook
        Distiller
        Teacher
        Entertainer
        Farmer
        Fishmonger
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Cost Prerequisite
Breaking Point 10 Gossip Hound 10 Gracious Guest 10 Helping Hand 10 More To Give 10
    Not every hero is the greatest of warriors. Sometimes the greatest of heroes
are the people who provide you with food when you are starving, drink when you
are dying, and encouragement when you think you cannot go on.
Advanced Skills
Breaking Point
    There is nothing more terrifying than seeing a calm and resourceful
person completely lose their shit. By spending 5 minutes expounding in a loud,
animated, and detailed exposition in regards to how the Shepherd of the Land who
is using Breaking Point has had “enough of this nonsense” the Shepherd of the
Land may expend 10 Mind Points and declare “By my voice, TERROR”. All persons
within earshot must then either expend a Mind Resist or run from the user of
Breaking Point for a minimum of 10 minutes. This Skill may only be used once per
event and does not affect Full Dead or the Undead.
Gossip Hound
    The people who work the hardest are often those that often facilitate and
perpetuate gossip and rumors. By expending 10 Mind Points a Shepherd of the Land
using Gossip hound may write down a single rumor, no more than 20 words long,
and hand that rumor to the director of the game they are at (we also suggest
sending a reminder email after the event since game directors are so busy). The
rumor provided will be implemented in the next months Bartenders Tongue for the
game. By expending 20 Mind Points, a Shepherd of the Land using Gossip Hound may
instead have their rumor appear in the public rumors instead of the Bartenders
Tongue. Any rumors found to be personal attacks to a player instead of a
character may be changed by Staff Members to make the rumor more appropriate for
game.
298

 Gracious Guest
    Taking care of the people around you often times involves taking care of the
environment around you. A healthy person who resides in a place of sickness will
become sick, and a sick person who resides in a place of sickness will never
grow healthy. A Shepherd of the Land understands that people need to be Gracious
Guests of the land they inhabit. By spending 1 Hour roleplaying cleaning and
prepping an area that is at least 10x10 (feel free to actually clean) once per
12s a Shepherd of the Land can expend 20 Mind Points and produce one of the
following effects in the cleared/cleaned area:
Name of 10x10 Space
Cleared Farmland
Community Space
Workspace
Location
Outside In Open Field. Marked off 10x10 area
Open outdoor picnic area marked off OR indoor public area. Indoor public areas cannot have locked doors during duration of Community Space.
10x10 area.
Location must have either a Kitchen, Printers table, Still, Workbench, or Forge. Indoor 10x10 area.
Effect
Farming takes 1/2 time. One user at a time.
1 Liter of craft 5 Hootch Consumed
Heals 5 Health (requires card). Entire liter must be consumed by one person inside the community space.
Increases total available allowed users of the assigned equipment by 3. Only one crafter tool (Forge, Printer table, etc) may be assigned to a Workspace. Once the item is removed from the Workspace the effects come to an end.
Duration
Until 12s Until 12s
Until 12s
Helping Hand
    Every now and then you need to be able to go to your hidden reserves inside
you to help those around you. A Shepherd of the Land with the Helping Hands
Skill understands that every now and then you need to tap into those reserves
to work a little harder. By expending 10 Mind Points when cooking Healthy
Feast, Brewing, Fishing, or Farming you may produce two additional serving of
that particular Brew, feast, Produce, or Herb. This additional volume does not
require any additional time expenditure for production, harvest, or preparation,
however only one use of production via Helping Hands is turned over to the
Shepherd of the Land. The second serving is added to seeding for scrounging,
gifted to a new player, or placed on a new player module by Staff Members. This
Skill may only be used once per 12s.
More To Give
    Self-sacri ce isn’t necessary to keep people going; sometimes all it takes
is a bit of forethought and preparation. Once per event a Shepherd of the Land
may expend 10 Mind Points to duplicate a single serving of brew or food that
they have ‘stashed away for an emergency’. When going to Logistics to utilize
this Skill you will be issued a card identical to a non-expired food or brew
card that you bring with you to Logistics. The new card you are given will have
an expiration date of the next 12s, however, you may immediately bring this item
into play as you have ‘Remembered you stored one of these away for just such an
emergency’.

299
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 200 XP Points Requires at least 100 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Calloused Hands Scarred Bones Jaded World View Iron Kidney
Pack Mule
Cost Prerequisite
10 10 10 10 10
Survivor
    Everyone claims that they are a survivor; however, the truth is many people
are just zombies waiting to happen. A true survivor understands that you need to
be more than just skilled at  ghting; a true survivor understands that you need
to be able to endure and weather the assaults that come at you.
Advanced Skills
Calloused Hands
    A Survivor with this Skill has scratched and worked nearly every day of
their life. From manual labor to  ghting to live, a Survivor has the ability to
do what needs to be done without breaking under the labor. Whenever Brewing,
Building a Better Tomorrow, Forging the Future, Cooking, Scrounging, Farming, or
performing First Aide, as long as the player with this Skill leaves one hand on
their current project they may utilize combat Skills with their offhand without
their current project being ruined or having their completion timer reset.
Scarred Bones
    Chances are good that by the time someone becomes a Survivor, they have had
their limbs mangled so many times that there is more scarring than clean bone on
their frame. A Survivor with this Advanced Skill may have Mangled limbs repaired
with a simple application of First Aide instead of requiring Fix Limb. Standard
means of limb repair will work as per normal; however, they are not required.
Jaded World View
    A true survivor has seen it all, made notes of the bad spots, and has
experienced so much that very little shakes them to their foundation any more.
A Survivor with this Advanced Skill shrugs off temporary derangements at the
end of the next Twelves instead of at the end of an event weekend. In addition,
a survivor with this Avanced Skill may spend 10 Mind Points at the time of
receiving a permanent derangement to instead receive the temporary version of
the same derangement.
300

 Iron Kidney
    In their travels a Survivor has consumed all sorts of rancid, vile,
poisonous, and intoxicating substances; often times on purpose. A Survivor
with this Advanced Skill may expend 5 Mind Points to negate the effects of
intoxication. In addition a Survivor with this Skill may expend 10 Mind Points
to ignore addictive or sensory effecting effects of a single brew they have
inhaled, consumed, injected, or drank.
Pack Mule
    Sometimes a Survivor needs to be able to grab and go with all of their
worldly possessions on their back. By expend 10 Mind Points a Survivor with
this Advanced Skill can move at full speed regardless of the carry rate of an
object, as long as they expend the appropriate number of points for the carry.
In addition, use of the Skill Carry used in conjunction with spending for Pack
Mule will extend the use of the duration of Carry to Ten Minutes.

301
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind or Health One of the following Professions:
        Mad Scientist
        Tinker
        Engineer
Profession Bio
Skill Name Cost Elementary! 10 Eureka! 10 Brilliant! 10 Genius! 10 Excelsior! 10
Prerequisite
Elementary!
Elementary!
Techno Savant
    I can  x this... WITH MY SCIENCE! Now stand back, plebian - this could
explode and I don’t need your monkey grunts annoying me.
Restrictions
Those who have achieved the standing of Techno Savant have done so through countless trials and tribulations, performing dangerous experiments in the name of fringe SCIENCE! Because of this, as soon as the Advanced Profession Techno Savant is gained, the learner gains one of the following derangements permanently: Megalomania, Delusions of Grandeur, or Paranoid Personality Disorder. This derangement may be put down for small periods of time; however, it may never be completely lost  even if the Advanced Profession Techno Savant is lost.
Advanced Skills
Elementary!
    A Techno Savant forgets more Lore than most people ever memorize. With
an expenditure of 5 Mind Points a Techno Savant with this skill may call on
a single use of one of the following skills: Lore (Complex Electronics); Lore
(Doomsday Device); Lore (Tesla Electronics); Lore (Biological Warfare); Lore
(Gizmos); or Lore (Esoteric Cultural Anomalies); or Lore (Structural Anomalies).
This Skill may only be used once per Twelves, and the Techno Savant may not
teach Lore obtained with the Skill to others.
Eureka!
    A Techno Savant with this Skill has the capacity to design original
blueprints for Augments, Gizmos, Engineering Prints, and Armor (not weapons
or traps) that have not been created before. This Skill requires extensive
work with the staff for the approval of a design between events, and approval
from both branch and network must be obtained BEFORE roleplaying the creation
of a new blueprint. All blueprints produced via Eureka will not be able to be
duplicated, transcribed, or recreated in any way shape or form. The process of
introducing an approved Gizmo blueprint into game should take at least half an
hour of roleplaying the scienti c discovery. This Skill may only be used once
every six months and any item produced from a Eureka! Blueprint will have a
maximum lifespan of 6 months.  Use of Eureka! Costs 20 Mind Points.
302

 Brilliant!
    While weapons can be broken, in the heat of the moment Techno Savants can
squeeze a little more use out of a broken weapon as long as it has not actually
been Chopped. To use this Skill, the Techno Savant must place their hand on the
weapon in question and spend 5 Mind Points. The weapon will continue to work for
up to an hour as long as the Techno Savant continues to hold the weapon, or at
least keeps one hand on the device to ‘hold it together’.
Genius!
    By making a signi cant effort at scienti c progress, a Techno Savant is
capable of producing a signature weapon Melee Weapon, Bolt Action weapon, or
Room Augmentation; one that is capable of truly amazing things. What exactly it
does, however, is somewhat...  unpredictable. Upon creation of this weapon, a
single sealed packet will be attached to the back of the Item Card. This packet
represents a feature that has been added to the weapon. These features are often
incredible, but they’re not always safe. Using or even opening the packet causes
the effects to go off within seconds of it being opened. The effect’s timing is
variable, i.e., meaning that how long it takes to open and read the packet is
how long it takes to go off (holds are not called for this). Unfortunately, use
of these cards causes the Genius! creation to burn out. These additions cost 10
Mind Points and 20 minutes of extensive crafting roleplaying at a Work Bench to
add on to a weapon. Once the packet is used, the original weapon remains (unless
the packet states otherwise).
Excelsior!
    A Techno Savant who is worth their weight in transistors has also endured
more than their share of poison, radiation, and explosive shrapnel at the hands
of their own inventions. By the time a mere scientist has become a Techno
Savant, they have grown accustomed to most forms of technological abuse. With
the expenditure of 10 Mind Points, a Techno Savant can triple the damage from a
single trap or Gizmo that they have triggered. Assuming the experience does not
kill the Techno Savant, they will be able to produce a single Blueprint for that
device for future recreation. Damage received in this way ignores all forms of
armor, and cannot be avoided. If the Gizmo or trap does no damage to the Techno
Savant, then no Blueprint can be produced via this Skill. Gizmos created through
Eureka! cannot have blueprints created in this way.

303
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points Requires at least 50 XP to have been spent into Mind
Profession: Psionist
Skill: Any two Advanced Psionic Skils
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Cost Prerequisite
Thought Bender
Shattered Psyche 10
Duality
Grave Mind Mental Breakdown My Little Friend
10 Shattered Psyche
10 Shattered Psyche
10 Shattered Psyche
Shattered Psyche
    The mind is a terrible thing to waste, and a worse thing to taste. A Thought
Bender is a Psion who manages the unusual feat of using the full potential of
their mind while at the same time never completely realizing what’s going on.
Restrictions
    A Thought Benders’ primary personality can never use the term ‘I’, but
instead only ever use ‘we’. Their concept of ‘I’ is lost as soon as the psyche
is shattered. Curiously, their second personality doesn’t suffer the same
restriction.
Advanced Skills
Shattered Psyche
    The  rst Skill that any Thought Bender must learn, Shattered Psyche is an
attack upon one’s own ego. When this Skill is purchased, the Thought Bender
gains 10 permanent Mind Points and 10 permanent Health Points. Mental boundaries
are blurred as well, as the Thought Bender taps into the collective subconscious
to augment their own capabilities. Once Shattered Psyche is purchased, the
Thought Bender gains the permanent derangement ‘Multiple Personality Disorder.’
This derangement cannot be cured or suppressed so long as the character remains
a Thought Bender. The primary personality and the secondary personality are
completely unaware of each other, and actively resist any attempt to be
reconciled or otherwise made aware of their shared circumstance. Even if
indisputable proof is offered, a personality will quickly rationalize it away
and forget about it within minutes; if personalities are found to be actively
working together, this skill may be revoked, along with all other Thought Bender
abilities.
304

 A full costume change and extensive roleplaying are required to portray the two personalities, as it is always a drastic transformation; the two identities will never be mistaken for each other. Switching between personalities therefore takes as long as it does to switch costumes and change mannerisms, and regardless of other preparations, it should never
be instantaneous. Unless otherwise noted, a personality switch only occurs when the player desires - and it is always an OOC decision, since the personalities are not aware of each
other - though it is recommended that the player develop some general ideas about the type of situations and emotions that trigger a change, to give consistency to the personalities and the circumstances when they take charge. This Skill may only be purchased once.
Duality
With the purchase of this Skill a Thought Bender gains the ability to learn fourth and  fth Professions, as per standard Profession costs and requirements, with the exception that these Professions can only be accessed by the secondary personality. The Professions, as well as the Skills learned within these Professions, will be marked with a (2nd) after them on the character sheet. Once Duality has been purchased, the secondary Personality loses ability to use any Skills or Professions gained by the primary personality.
Grave Mind
There is a humming deep under the collective embodiment of the shambling horde, one that the shattered mind of a Thought Bender can access. When facing a shambling zombie, a Thought Bender may spend 20 Mind Points and engage a ranged psionic attack. If the attack succeeds, the Thought Bender gains basic mental control of the shambling zombie and is able to direct it with verbal commands for 30 minutes. Once the 30 minutes have passed, the control ends and the Thought Bender’s personality immediately begins shifting to its other persona.
My Little Friend
This Skill brings the psychosis and nightmares of a Thought Bender into the real world. After spending 20 Mind Points and 10 Health Points, the Thought Bender may record their action at Logistics. At this point a physical manifestation of the psionic energy released by the Thought Bender assaults a single target (or target type description) named by the Thought Bender at time of activation. The orders given to this psionic creature cannot be anything other than malicious. This psionic creature will attack for the full duration of 2 hours, returning time and again like horror movie monster if it is killed. In addition, during the full 2 hours the psionic creature is released, the Thought Bender is incapable of switching personalities for any reason.
Mental Breakdown
The single most awesome and terrifying ability of a Thought Bender is their ability to upload their mind into the collective unconscious as the body dies. Faced with impending death, a Thought Bender may permanently expend their  nal Infection Rate and enter  nal death. The mind of the Thought Bender is then downloaded into a new body, created completely by the staff with the one third of the old body’s spent Experience Points and an Infection Rate of 2.
Exactly how this new body comes to be inhabited is a matter of some speculation and no certainty. Some say they are created whole from raw psionic energies, fresh-forged from the raw stuff of creation through sheer force of will; others whisper that the Thought Bender steals into the body of one freshly dead and takes it for their own, in a warped parody of the Grave Mind. A few dark rumors even suggest that the body need not be either new or dead... but if any of these theories are true, no one know for sure.
Note: No matter its origins, this new body keeps the memories of one of the two former personalities, and is never a Psionic.

305
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 200 XP Points Requires: Lore (Local)
Requires character to have been in attendance for 3 games in succession (to establish ties and connections) before skills can be used.
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Cost Prerequisite
Veteran
Been There Did That 10 Dirty Connections 10 Knows A Guy 10 Owed Favors 10 Prior Enemies 10
Literacy
    Spend enough time in a town and you get to know every stone, every building,
every tree, and every person. You may know more than you would like, understand
more than you admit, and have ties you have earned through the most bizarre
happenstance. Most of the time these relations are a pain in the ass, however,
sometimes they come through for you in spades.
Advanced Skills
Been There Did That
    With the expenditure of 10 Mind Points, a Veteran with this Skill can check
to see if someone’s story is true in regards to where they claim they have been
or where they come from. This Skill requires 10 minutes of roleplaying asking
details of the target’s origin, such as names of people or locations they
knew, and at the end of that 10 minutes the user of Been There Did That can
either catch the individual in a lie, or, con rm their origins by asking for
OOC con rmation from the player. This Skill may only be used to determine what
townships, territories, or locations an individual has traveled through or lived
in, not what buildings they have visited or activities they undertook in those
locations. If this Skill is used on someone where their background has not been
approved, this Skill results in a ‘very doubtful’ response.
Dirty Connections
    You may not be a member of the Black Market, you may not be a business
member of Murder Inc., however you have been around long enough that you are
pretty sure you know how to get in touch with these people. By spending 10 Mind
Points and writing a letter to give to Logistics, that letter will be delivered
to either a Murder Inc. or Black Market representative by the next event at
latest. This letter is assumed to be left at either an old gathering place or
old drop point, and will be delivered out-of-character. This Skill may be used
to attempt to purchase favors, protection, or contracts from the appropriate
organization.
306

 Knows a Guy
    With enough time, you can get to know the movers and shakers in the ‘get
things done’ communities. With an expenditure of 20 Mind Points and registering
the use of ‘Knows a Guy’ with the game director, an NPC with one of the
following Advanced Professions will travel to town to hear your request for aid
either that event or the next event (Director’s discretion). This request for
assistance will not be all encompassing, and often will be very costly once the
individual arrives, however sometimes having that assistance is key to getting
things done. The Advanced Profession representative NPCs that can be contacted
are Mercenary, Grave Robber, or Techno Savant. This Skill may only be used once
every six months and will require extensive roleplaying for any form of teaching
(teaching not guaranteed).
Owed Favors
    Do enough work over a long enough period of time, and someone is going
to owe you one. A Veteran with the advantage of Owed Favors can spend 20 Mind
Points and register at logistics that they are using ‘Owed Favors’ once per
event. When activating Owed Favors the Veteran rolls a single 10 sided die to
determine the outcome of Owed Favors in relation to the following table:
Die Roll
1,2 3,4 5,6 7
8 9 10
Result
Able to get a single Named Scrap or Named Herb of rollers choice
for 50 of the local currency.
Able to get a single Named Scrap or Named Herb of rollers choice
for 40 of the local currency.
Able to get a single Named Scrap or Named Herb of rollers choice
for 30 of the local currency.
Able to get a single Named Scrap or Named Herb of rollers choice
for 20 of the local currency.
Able to get a single Named Scrap or Named Herb of rollers choice
for 10 of the local currency.
Able to get a single Named Scrap or Named Herb of rollers choice
for free.
Able to get a single Named Scrap or Named Herb of the rollers
choice and 5 basic Herbs for free.
Prior Enemies
    Over a long enough period of time, a Veteran grows to have a particular
hatred for a speci c kind of zombie. When taking the Skill ‘Prior Enemies’
the owner of the Skill names a particular kind of undead (Shambler, Hunter,
Burster, Tank, etc.) or a particular strain of humanity (Red Star, Retrograde,
Pure Blood, etc). Once per twelves the user of Prior Enemies may expend 10 Mind
Points to have all weapons used by the Veteran with the Prior Enemies skill gain
the trait ‘X Bane’ where ‘X’ is the enemy type chosen for the next half hour.
Bane trumps all other damage modi ers that would be used on a weapon, and each
weapon may only have Bane verses a single target. As an example, if a Veteran
with Prior Enemies ‘Hunter Zombies’ is wielding a blade that normally does 2
points of damage, has poison on it that does 10 points of poison damage, and
they activate Prior Enemies, that blade now does 12 points of Hunter Bane (12
points against targets that are not Hunter zombies, and 24 points of damage
against Hunter zombies).

307
 Requirements Strain: Any
Prior Expenditure: 100 XP Points One of the following Professions:
        Thief
        Assassin
        Spy
Profession Bio
Skill Name
Protection Racket Nimble Fingers Fence
Running Numbers Well... Shit.
Cost Prerequisite
10 Disguise
10 Pick Pockets 10
10
Villon
    A person could till the  elds, work the forge, and spend all of their days
looking to build a life for themselves. What the worker bee doesn’t realize is
that at any moment the fruits of their labor can be taken away without a second
thought. Why work the  elds when you can work the laborers, I always say.
Restrictions
    Villon are subtle, and do not announce themselves for what they are
publically. Even with groups of trusted friends, Villon have an identity that
they present to the outside world that everyone believes. A Villon does not
pocket petty credits, or a poor man’s equipment – a Villon steals the jewels out
of a crown while it is being worn.
Advanced Skills
Protection Racket
    Ever wonder how it is that a thief is able to keep themselves from being
caught?  Well, there is an entire network of people that ensure that the best
thieves have all the tools they need to keep their personas hidden. By expending
30 credits or 50 basic Scrap at Logistics, a Villon with the Protection Racket
Advanced Skill can step into an established alternate identity for up to 24
hours. This identity can be of any Strain and use of Lores, Society Memberships,
and Analyze Creature will all report that the disguise persona is accurate
for the name and Strain of the disguise. In addition this disguise may not
be removed by any means other than willing removal by the Villon using the
advantage of the Protection Racket (disguise remains even through death if the
Villon wishes it to). Each identity taken by the Villon will be provided a
Gizmo card with a one month expiration date showing that the Protection Racket
has done the leg work to  ll in the back story of a falsi ed identity. Personas
that have memberships into societies, communes, or set organizations may cost an
additional 10 credits or 20 Herb/Scrap at Storyteller’s discretion.
308

 Nimble Fingers
    Any thief can grab something out of a pocket, a Villon on the other hand
can tell the value of items by touch. Instead of activating Pick Pockets, a
Villon can spend 10 Mind Points to enact Nimble Fingers. The Villon using this
Advanced Skill must register their expenditure with a Marshal and then clip the
pocket/bag they wish to rob. Instead of taking a single item at random from that
pocket, the Villon will receive the item of the highest Crafts Level or value
from that pocket. The Villon must inform the Marshal at time of activation if
value or Crafts Level is the intended target.
Fence
    So what good is a high-end item if you can’t get rid of it?  Fortunately
the Villon knows people who know people, who can turn around and try to sell hot
items at the Black Market for them. A Fence will only take items of the highest
quality, and may turn down items too generic for Black Market sale, however
the Villon with the Fence Advanced Skill may show items to the Black Market
representative at Check In to put those items up for sale at the Black Market.
The Black Market representative will never betray who gave them the items to
sell, however, they will take a small cut of the income for their interests.
In addition, items sold to a Fence may have a minimum price assigned to them;
however, the Fence will try to get as much as possible for your wares.
Running Numbers
    Sometimes getting a job done is all about having the right number of people
doing the right number of things at the right time. By spending 30 minutes
setting a plan and preparing with their cohorts and by spending 20 Mind Points,
a Villon may extend their criminal expertise to a team of no more than 4 other
people. The four targets of Running Numbers gain the effects of Disguise for a
duration of 1 hour as well as one use of Balance and Escape that expires in 1
hour. Each sheet receiving this bonus must have ‘Running Numbers’ recorded in
their expenditure section. It is highly suggested that a character using the
Running Numbers Skill has already use the Protection Racket Skill to ensure that
their identity is hidden from their mook assistants. This Skill may only be used
once per event.
Well... Shit.
    Locks are a fantastic thing; however, they become completely useless once
you have a key to the lock. By registering with a Marshal and then roleplaying
analyzing a lock (must be within reaching distance of the lock the entire time)
for 10 minutes per Crafts Level of the lock and spending 30 Mind Points, a
Villon may then jot down the key code listed on the lock. With this code the
Villon can then go directly to a Workbench to create a short term key for that
lock. Key production itself only takes 5 minutes, however, each key produced
in this way requires 1 basic Scrap and will expire within 24 hours. Locks that
use multiple keys will require multiple expenditures of time, Mind Points, and
Scrap.

309
 World Knowledge and Information
Welcome to a New Age:
What a Starting Character Would Know
There is a lot of information out there for the Dystopia Rising universe: table top books, the LARP book, location splash books, online information, novels, and local game info pages. With all of this material, sometimes it is tough to know what it is that a character SHOULD know when it comes into play the  rst time. With that in mind we’ve put together a few basic knowledge levels for you to choose from, and some basic information you should be aware of as your character.
    While these lists are not all encompassing for every area, they are a good
start.  We recommend talking to your local branch about what additional local
information would be appropriate for your character to know based on the theme
and style of the local game.
Low World Knowledge
There are zombies in the world, thousands of different types. Some fast, some slow, some that are sneaky, some that have strange psionic powers. The zombies aren’t spawned from just people dying, since that would really limit the number that are currently in the world.
There are many different Strains in the world, and these strains are almost like different species. Knowing the names and general conceptual ideas of many of the strains is not a stretch of the imagination, but there are unique nuances (the sort of stuff outlined in the table top extended knowledge) you probably don’t know a lot about.
There are not a lot of settlements in the world, and most of the ones that do exist are built on the ruins of ancient structures. These old structures are  lled with strange objects and overgrown remains that often get repurposed by modern survivors.
The world is not only dangerous, but it damn well hates you. There are zombies, mutated creatures, poisonous territories, and even Raiders. Raiders are not people, cannot be reformed, and are physically different on a basic level.
There are some big cities out there, but according to the old folklore, they are nothing compared to the way it used to be.
310

 Technology is rare, and mostly found in larger civilizations. Most small settlements don’t have power. Some rare small settlements may have a diesel generator, but most of the time that sort of resource is primarily used for purposes that are REALLY important. Bigger settlements, like Old York, the Iron Works, or Vegasia, have large sections that have power. These rare places have things like radio transmitters, electric lights, and powered tools. However, this sort of technology is more of the exception instead of the rule.
Culture is simple in most places, complex as population goes up. Most areas don’t care about things such as skin color, gender, or sexual preference. There are not enough survivors in the world to be discriminatory. Strains on the other hand? Strainism is rampant in many parts of the globe.
Moderate World Knowledge
All details outlined in low knowledge plus:
Some of the most common zombies are the shambler, the hunter, and the burster. Shamblers move slowly and normally in massive packs. They are dangerous due to their numbers, but with intelligent  ghting they can be put down pretty easily. If you
get swarmed by them, things can become dangerous.
Bursters look like a shambler but as they get closer, they get a massive burst of speed and strength. Bursters will chase down and attack a single target, often times moving faster than the quickest scout. Hunters can move quick—like bursters— but they have more of a feral intelligence about them. They will stalk areas at times when they know their targets are at a disadvantage. Hunters can attack alone, or frighteningly, use pack tactics.
All of the undead seem to have some sort of limited mental link of some sort. If one zombie  nds food, somehow the rest start swarming in that direction. Zombies without eyes, ears, or even a nose instinctively know what direction they should go based on the reaction of one successful hunter. Sort of like ants, when one  nds food, they all swarm.
Psions exist both as zombies and as people. They are strange people that can use their mind to change the world around them. Rumor has it that the undead and strange mutants are drawn to areas that have a higher psionic presence.
You know that there are creatures called zombies that are spawned from a
biomass known as the Grave Mind. You know that when people die they have screwed
up scenarios in their head and with their body that is in result of some sort of connection the Grave Mind has with the physical form. You also know that the quick heal times, strength, and ability to adapt to the current environment have something to do with the Grave Mind and an infection in people.
You know that there are zombies in the world, mutants, Raiders, strange psionic projections, and some nasty evolutions of creatures out there. However, you are also world-traveled enough to know that there is no such thing as magic, ghosts, curses, hexes, and magical rituals. You know that some folks of faith can make miracles happen, but you may also have a sneaking suspicion that these miracles are somehow related to psionics.
You are aware of the most common undead that are found in the area your branch is based out of, assuming your character has been in the area for a while. You should contact your local branch to  nd out what the most common and well-known threats in the area are.

311
Advanced World Knowledge
Everything in Low and Moderate information plus:
There was a race of people that existed before the current Strains known
as Humans. Humans were strange, self-destructive, and amazing creatures. Their technology bordered on the unbelievable and their inability to see the riches their life offered crested on the ridiculous.
The air that everyone is accustomed to is moderately radiated. The radiation is signi cantly higher than it used to be before Strains rose and Humanity fell.
The ground has changed drastically since the days of humans, and with that, much of the geography suggests there was a prolonged period of time between the start of the fall of mankind and the rise of the Strains. Most people say 4-5 generations, however, the  rst generations that existed did not report anything about Humans being around. There are questions in regards to the duration of time that passed between when humanity vanished and when the Strains began as they are.
You know many of the major settlements in the region that your character is based in, and, have heard of some of the settlements hundreds if not thousands of miles away. The further away the settlement is, the less you know, but you have at least heard about these places.
You know that each region has unique mutations of undead, and that there are hundreds of different ‘zombie’ variants. There are zombies in the world that
spit poison, have limited thought processes, rot vegetables, hide under water, and even have the psionic ability to change the
appearance of reality around it. The undead,
while a massive threat, still do not pose
anywhere a much of a threat
as the greed and violence of
the different strains.
There are a number of Raider clans that exist,
each of them with their own simple tribal nature. Each of these tribes has different focuses, tactics, and even intellect levels. There
are some tribes that are capable of passing themselves off almost as if they were Remnants, however, with a keep inspection an individual can detect the difference.
312

 A Closer Look at the World
The initial outbreak of the virus came hard and fast, because it had been with us for so long. Corpses piled high in the streets as men and women panicked, either sheltering in place or seeking the safety of remote locations. Manyz fell, sickened by the Infection that claimed so many lives—and then they rose again to devour family and friends, craving living  esh. The stench of death hung hot and heavy in the air as bombs rained upon cities and states in an attempt to halt the inevitable spread. Civilization crumbled, sacri ced to the ever-ravenous horde. Humans as we once knew them were eradicated.
    Generations passed— generations and time. While humans themselves fell, new
Strains of humanity emerged as evolution took its toll. Technology was all but
forgotten as people turned back to simpler methods, casting off electronics and
communications. The world fell into a new dark age.
    In this new world, there are no cell phones, no computers, no Internet. Only
the most basic of implements have survived. People had to re-learn how to spin
cloth and work metal as the higher arts were forgotten. Knowing how to read is
rare, and the advanced technology that once was has passed into legend. Books
are almost non-existent, and many have been lost to either water or  re. Oral
tradition has become far more common than the written word.
    New religions sprung up from the legends of the past world. The Telling
visionaries followed the ancient scriptures from the Oracle Boxes, using the
tales as fables to tell children how to live their lives. The Kings Court
unearthed old records and followed the lyrics from the Old World. Darwinists
turned to the theory of evolution, believing in the mastery of what was left
of science. The Fallow Hopes decided to care for what was left of the world,
trying to re-establish what was. The Sainthood turned to  ghting against the new
order, destroying the undead creatures that now roamed the Earth while the Final
Knights recognized the world for the hell it was.
    Fortunately, the strains evolved to be smarter, stronger and faster. A
simple bullet wound won’t kill a person. In fact, six bullet wounds won’t kill
a person. The Infection, which  ows through each and every individual, has the
amazing ability to stitch bodies back together over time. What was once only a
curse has now become a mixed blessing, though few realize its importance; after
all, an educated individual is a very rare occurrence indeed.
    Civilization is no longer what it once was. Instead of cities, there are
merely small towns—settlements that try to eke out a living within the harsh
environment. Trade between areas is slow, hindered by bad roads and the constant
onslaught of the undead. The water has risen in many areas along the East Coast
of the United States and the South, and vast deserts stretch over what was once
the Great Plains. Storms sweep across the Midwest, and radiation seeps into the
soil from the bombs that fell so long ago.
    Only the most advanced settlements still possess the needed parts to create
vehicles and machines. And even if you do have something that actually works,
you still need something to power it. Black gold is harvested from Lone Star—
what was once Texas—and others use the vestiges of old power plants to keep
towns running. Electricity, though, is rare and faulty— and bright lights often
draw the wrong kind of attention.

313
 Because of these harsh conditions, people are more willing to let their morals slide. What was once considered taboo is now acceptable. Slavery and cannibalism are not unusual in this world, and men and women betray one another in order to get a better deal.
However, while the lack of civilization is something that the men and women of the wastes have to cope with, what is worse is the constant threat of the walking dead. With the rise of the Infection, death is no longer permanent. Bodies are stitched back together and people emerge, whole once more, from the Grave Mind—the mysterious force that was created from the Infection. Yet there is no guarantee that someone will emerge again as themselves. Sometimes, they rise again as a corpse— their minds consumed by the Infection as they hunger for living  esh.
This is the world that people must now live in. This is the harsh reality of their existence. Yet they continue to push forward and survive. After all, sometimes that’s all you can do.
A New Moral Compass
The world fell. Buildings crumbled into rubble as bombs toppled from the
sky, crushing humanity and civilization in their wake. The screams of millions reverberated across the globe, the cries of the dying and the moans of the living mingling together in a chorus of misery. Entire cities collapsed, leaving rusting hulks of skeletal structures that were then torn apart by survivors. Men and women didn’t  ght for the right to live; they fought for the privilege to live as friend turned against friend, and as families ripped each other apart.
Is it any wonder that when the world changed, so did its moral compass?
The world of Dystopia Rising is not like the world of today. What is considered “right” and what is considered “wrong” has been drastically altered as the Infection has spread and taken hold. Shooting a person to put them out of their misery is viewed as an act of kindness, and killing a man for the “good” of a settlement is common sense. The line has shifted— and morals fall  rmly into a murky shade of grey when it comes to the apocalypse.
So what does this mean for you? Your character has grown up in this world, faced with the harsh realities of survival. Vice and sin is no longer viewed as a degradation of humanity; it’s simply viewed as a distraction from the hard world—a welcome escape from the reality of the restless dead. This means that Strainism
is expected, drugs are the norm, slavery is common, and torture is simply another tool for the local sheriff. It’s important to understand what might seem morally abhorrent to you is not morally abhorrent to your character; after all, this is the apocalypse.
Take slavery as an example. In today’s modern world, slavery is repellent (for good reason). Yet when the world fell, men and women took advantage of the situation and instated more of a Roman inspired form of slavery. Slaves were provided shelter and food in return for hard labor. Over time and over generations, this turned into a master-slave relationship. An entire industry grew up around slave labor. Highly- trained slaves star in Vegasia as performers. Hard laborers work in the mines in
the Aysea, and others are raised as livestock to feed Full Dead and Semper Mort settlements. While this doesn’t make slavery right, in any form, it makes it part
of the landscape.
You are more than welcome to have a character that is either pro- or anti-
314

 slavery. However, the subject of slavery should always be treated with respect. Always ensure that everyone involved in the subject matter understands that it is an in-game only aspect of culture, and that it in no way represents the real world or real viewpoints.
Drugs and substances that alter behavior are also not seen as vices. In fact, alcohol may be safer to drink than water in some cases. Drugs can enhance military performance and may mean the difference between life and death. An addiction may be irritating, but it’s nothing a person can’t deal with; all you have to do is toss another one back. It’s not unusual to see men and women popping pills or shooting up drugs— it’s just another part of life. This doesn’t make it right by modern evolved cultural standards, but again, the post-apocalypse isn’t functioning on the same evolved morality.
Families have also been broken down with civilization. The idea of a “traditional” family has long since passed. Marriages can still occur, but a group living situation, such as with the Red Star commune, isn’t unusual. Similarly, the idea of “divorce” and marriage contracts are almost non-existent—except perhaps among certain Pure Blood circles or within the strict Rover society. And even then, these contracts are more of a  nancial understanding than anything else. Marriages turn into deals that ensure mutual survival.
It’s also important to remember that with Infection, death has lost some of its sting. It’s a terrible thing to pass
through the Grave Mind, but people can emerge eventually. Death is not the  nal journey; sometimes, it’s only the beginning. This means that murder is more widely accepted, and watching someone killing or beating someone else isn’t
necessarily the worst thing your character has seen.
Morals are grey in Dystopia Rising; there is no right and no wrong. And the worst monsters aren’t the
restless dead or the irradiated beasts that roam the wastes. They’re not the hulking
creatures that lurk in the darkness. They’re the survivors themselves.
The world fell. Civilization fell. And now, morality is  uid— a constantly shifting pattern of grey shades. It
is your decision, as a player, what degree of roleplay and interaction you feel comfortable with in regards to these subjects. In addition, if this is subject matter that you are approaching, it is the responsibility
of those engaged in story that involves this sort of subject matter to ensure
that they everyone involved is consenting and comfortable with the subject matter at hand.
Because at no point are we, as a culture or community, saying that this
subject matter is actually acceptable
in the real world. What we are saying is that the imaginary world that we are
taking part of is very, very  awed.

315
 Faith in the New World
Faith and religion play unique roles in Dystopia Rising. The game setting takes place in a world where organized education, organized business, and organized religion have all but been destroyed by the wholesale loss of humanity. More than
90% of the world perished when the Infection Rate rose and the nuclear bombs dropped. Of the fragile ten percent of humanity that survived the initial year of this apocalyptic world, the majority spent it alone, spiritually if not literally. People did not gather in large forums to share faith, religion, or to spread the word of
the religions before the Fall. The world became a place with few students and even fewer teachers and shepherds.
Now, four generations past the Fall of Mankind, the world is again starting to look outside itself for purpose, and religion is on the rise. From the ashes of our fractured and clouded history, some very bizarre churches and cults found life. The most predominant faiths are listed on the pages that follow, and represent everything from quiet altruism to decadent hedonism, from grim pragmatism to bizarre historical clarity. These faiths and many others, organized by post-apocalyptic religious prophets and charlatans alike, became the new focus for the religious heart of mankind. The world that was once known is lost, so now those who have been born into the chaos look to forge a foundation for the next generation.
There are four stages of faith for you to roleplay, as it is recommended that you consider faith as an aspect of your character. The  rst stage of faith is not having faith in anything. If this stage is the most appropriate for your character
or the most comfortable for you to roleplay, simply do not choose a faith for your character, and ignore the entire concept. The second stage of faith is the searching. Perhaps your character does have faith, but isn’t sure in what. Your character can come into play without a particular faith or religion, but is ‘shopping around’ so to speak. The third stage of faith is having found a faith, and following its tenets... mostly. This level of faith is intended for characters who have found a faith that calls to them, and they try to follow it, but faith is not the primary focus of their life. The fourth level of faith is devotion to faith, which is where characters start looking to the deeper meaning of faith and actively participate in the religion.
If you do decide to play an aspect of faith and religion in regards to your character, remember a few things. First, should your character commit to a faith, they will be expected to participate in the rites and codes of your faith- and failing to do so may  nd you in bad standing with your fellow church or cult members. Second, in-character faith is nothing more than an additional form of story and plot. No matter how cool you may think it is to follow your ‘Telling Vision” or that Hedon’s Saturday night raves provide a moral compass, there is something you should know:
it’s not. This is not about real world truth. In truth, if you read through the faith section and have a good chuckle, get some great roleplay out of it, and perhaps a few philosophical discussions in game, then the staff achieved its goals.
The faiths listed in this section are not the only faiths allowed in game.
If you wish to make up your own religion with de ned tenets, the staff will work with you. These hedge faiths and local cults require approval by the staff before you are able to introduce them in-game. However, we prefer that new faiths introduced into game are creations of pure  ction, or roughly based on vague historical references. Real world faiths are discouraged in game, not to limit character concepts, but simply because it is too easy to cause out-of-character grief and offense to those who hold those beliefs in reality, even if purely by accident.
316

 
 Church of the Telling Visions
     “The faith of yesterday told us of what would come. The great telling
visions warned us of storms, provided us with great morality plays, and told us
to expect the  nal apocalypse. We did not listen to your great words, so now we
wait on station break.”
Summary
    As groups of Scavengers and stalwart Joneses pick through the wreckage of
the world that was, they tell stories of eerie similarity. In every house they
 nd a sacred shrine, sometimes three or four. Each shrine holds a cube... the
cubes that held the Telling Visions.
History
    Father R. Clark, the  rst visionary of the Church of the Telling Visions,
wrote his visions not on earthly paper, but instead in the air itself. Such was
the act of one blessed by god, and it is said that most of the world worshiped
the Telling Visions. Icons left by those who have passed generations back,
hollowed out plastic cubes offered looking glasses for each to worship, and be
bestowed the wisdom of the words written in air. The  rst Priest of the Church
of the Telling Visions adopted the name Father Ramirez Clark, and began to speak
of a time when the Telling Visions would teach us how to live our lives. Now
that the light has gone from the Telling Visions, it is our duty to stay tuned
until god is back ‘on the air’.
Outlook
    The Church of the Telling Visions looks to the lost mediums of the past
in hopes that they can guide themselves to receive ‘the great transmission’
which is promised to be provided ‘uncut, and without commercials’. Members of
the church worship every morning, reciting the daily wisdom from the book of
the Telling Visions Guide. They hope those who are the most divine and blessed
amongst the Church will be allowed glimpses and visions through the divination
glass of the Telling Visions. Sermons happen every Sunday morning, where members
of the church recite the script-tures they  nd, and allow for the morality plays
to be provided for the members of the audience.
318

     Upon joining the Church of the Telling Visions, each person is baptized in a
special liquid and has their new name chosen from one of the book of guides. The
morality and guidance of the Telling Visions, and the Visionaries that follow
the great Signal, are nebulous at best and mercurial at worst. While some of
the members of the Telling Visions choose to embody the actions of a particular
actor or director other Visionaries see things in a wider scale, and choose the
scriptures that are best suited for the situation they currently face.
    Regardless of the approach, most Visionaries have only read a handful of
scriptures and never actually seen a actual Telling Visions program. For the
rare individual Telling Visionary that has seen a working Telling Vision and has
been able to witness one of the scriptures  rst hand, these moments are amongst
the most sacred memories the Visionary will ever have.
Hierarchy
     The Hierarchy of the Telling Visions is as varied as the visions that the
faith worships. While some areas of the wasteland have a single Director of
Programming that all of the other Visionaries follow, other settlements organize
bizarre religious hierarchies based on the structures found within scriptures of
the Telling Visions.
Guiding Tenets
There is the alpha and the ohm-mega. The Signal is the beginning and the end.
Collect the lost relics of the Telling Visions, and always quest to  nd the Signal.
Destroy those who would impede the great Signal.
Do not allow others to witness your prayers without having them pay-to-view.
Every member must carry a piece of “Holly Wood” upon them as a sign of faith.
Respect the merchants, and heed the words of their sponsors.
Follow the visions of the Telling Visions, and learn from their enigmatic ways.
Religious Symbols
    Faithful of the Church of the Telling Visions have much in the way of
scavenged religious icons that can be carried with them. Beyond the staple
‘Telling Visions Guides’ and larger ‘Oracle boxes of the Telling Visions,’
members of the faith can adorn themselves with the icons and saviors that used
to speak to the masses through the telling visions. Much can be learned from an
individual depending on which icons they follow.
Notes on the Faith
    Playing a Telling Visionary is not reason to dress up like a TV or movie
character to play at Dystopia Rising. Most Telling Visionaries have never
actually seen a scripture played on a Telling Vision, nor do they have the
resources to recreate a TV character’s costume. If you do choose to have your
character dress as a member of a particular movie or TV show dresses, the
costume needs to be Dystopian Genre appropriate (faded, ripped, patched up,

319
 blood stained, and made out of rugged materials).
Subsects of the Faith
Actors Guild
    The Actors Guild is a branch of the Telling Visions which believes the
portrayal and tales told by an actor across multiple genres tells a story unto
itself. While many members of the Telling Vision looks to the character being
presented within a scripture, the member of the Actors Guild look to see who
was credited for portraying that individual. Following individual actors across
multiple genres allow the Actors Guild to gleam hidden knowledge and information
from the shared body of work.
Broadcast Standards and Practices
    The militant arm of the Telling Visions, the order of Broadcast Standards
and Practices look inward to monitor the activities of the Telling Vision
religious centers. Ensuring no great heresies occur, ensuring that no great
focuses of the Signal are lost, the followers of the Broadcast Practices and
Standards use overly dramatized actions and scenarios to teach the viewing
audience of the Telling Visions to follow the tenets of the faith... or else.
The Film Union
    A collection of archive keepers, the Film Union transcribes, protects, and
keeps relics of the Telling Visions. Overseeing religious vaults that store
technological advances of the silver screen, recorded documentation of different
script-tures, and physical memorabilia of the long gone days of the pre-fall
era, The Film Union are holy monks of the Telling Visions. Overseeing religious
sites, ensuring the proper preparation of religious rites, and recovering every
Scrap of pre-fall holy relics they can.
The Nemesis
    Not content with the idea that survival is the goal of life, The Nemesis
seek to build a world of heroes. It is theorized that for a hero to stand
forward a regular person needs to be confronted with a true face of evil; a
nemesis. These followers of the Telling Vision secretly don the clothes and
persona of villains of scriptures past with the hope of inspiring heroes to
 ght them. To The Nemesis, the future can only survive if we inspire people to
attempt to become the avatars of goodness that were foretold in the scriptures.
The Screen Writers Guild
    The Screen Writers Guild are the secret masterminds of the Telling Visions.
Using guile, preparation, and endless patience, the Screen Writers Guild looks
at communities of survivors as characters without a script. After identifying
the different arc-types that exist within a community, the Screen Writers Guild
takes what actions are needed to introduce drama to a town that is far too calm,
tension into a town that is far too complacent, levity to a place that is too
dramatic, and morality to a place that is lacking morals. In hopes that the
signal watches us in all of our days, The Screen Writers Guild works with the
hopes of making life into good TV.
320

 
321
 Sainthood of Ashes
    “We walk the ruins of the lands our father’s destroyed. In trial, we  nd
salvation. In charity, others might  nd their own. God helps those who help
others.”
Summary
     So says the Sainthood of Ashes, a motley collection of priests, saints, and
holy people who seek to shepherd the lost and protect the weak. Humble and kind,
travelers and salvagers look to them as sources of comfort and education. Less
savory individuals see them as over-trusting targets and marks, but only a fool
would doubt their dedication.
History
     Unlike many other religions and cults, the Sainthood of Ashes has no common
beacon, no single point of inspiration to bring its members together. When
Armageddon descended upon the peoples of the world, some very devout members of
the many faiths came together for what they perceived as the common good, the
common desire to shepherd those ill-prepared for the horrors released upon them.
As such, the Sainthood’s early years were spent in vagabonds’ shoes, moving to
where they could do the most good, and helping their  ock –soon de ned simply as
the people of the world– along the way.
    As generations pass, much knowledge of the past is lost, consumed in
mankind’s struggle just to survive. Yet the Sainthood of Ashes lives on as a
handful of wandering holy men and women. Once upon a time, some of the religions
lost to the sands of time preached towards and held their own traditions and
values; within the Sainthood, though, they became much purer ideals. There is
One God. Help your Neighbor. Mind your Pride.
Outlook
     The Sainthood of Ashes is comprised primarily of wanderers and vagabonds,
those who can rarely stand to stay in one place for very long. As a result, the
Sainthood focuses on performing charity and lending their aid on the  y, rather
than building temples or consolidating  ocks to care for. This suits them just
 ne, as it means they can spread their aid where it is most needed. Many holy
people of the Sainthood lend themselves out to friendlier scrounging parties,
322

 teach skills and letters to those interested as they pass through town, and
serve as messengers. They can be heralds of good fortune, or harbingers of ill
omen, when bringing news of another settlement overrun.
    The Sainthood values self-suf ciency in its men and women, but acknowledges
that others aren’t as capable as they may be. Their greatest aim is to promote
such suf ciency as needed, so that society might survive to rise again. They
strive to give aid to those in need, stranger or no, so that they might get the
chance to learn for themselves, if not from a Saint. Sadly, many look upon them
as naïve for such broad aid, and it is an unfortunate truth that many of these
humble holy people have been on the bad end of a highwayman’s pistol. As it is,
many are penniless, prone to giving away all but their most necessary resources
so others might suffer less.
    Saints are no fools, however – they won’t help arm brigands and raiders,
nor do they look favorably on those that take their gifts and turn around to
use them against their fellow men. Many bandits have mistaken the legendary
generosity of the Saints for passivity, only to discover their error at the end
of a blade or the barrel of a gun. And if their compassion for the living is
storied, their zeal in  ghting the undead is legendary, surpassed only by the
more militant organization of the followers of Fallow Hopes.
    Mostly, though, they serve their God through charity to others, whatever
form that may take. Some might preach on occasion, but for the most part, the
greatest lesson of their God they wish to pass on is to help others. Who knows
when you’ll need such generosity?
Hierarchy
     The Sainthood of Ashes has no true hierarchy. Formed from a melting pot
of old and new faiths alike, the Saints recognized each other over time out of
necessity, their tenets and outlook formed by word-of-mouth over many years.
Saints refer to themselves and each other as ‘Holy Men’ and ‘Holy Women,’ while
many who know them just call them ‘Preachers.’ Most don’t actually preach, but
no one seems to mind.
    While there’s no ranking within the faith, many Holy People recognize each
other by reputation. There’s a lot to be said for how far you’ve traveled and
the adventures you’ve had in the course of tending the  ock.
Guiding Tenets
    God gives us the power to make choices. Choose for good, always.
    Never leave a fellow traveler hungry or hurt. Karma always comes back
    around.
    Educate in your wake! Be it gardening or gun- ghting, knowledge is power.
    Teach others to teach, so your touch might linger after your feet have moved
    on.
    If you can do without, do so.
    Combat the Undead wherever you can. Zombies are a parody of dynamic life.

323
 Religious Symbols
All Saints carry and brandish a lantern –whether they can fuel it or not isn’t relevant– as a symbol of their faith, and their duty to light the dark ways of the world. Many wear dusters and hats, to protect against the environment while traveling from place to place. Crosses, candles, ankhs and other symbols of lost religions are all collected in earnest, some of the few possessions they don’t part with.
Subsects of the Faith
Engineers of Hope
The world can only improve itself if given the tools it needs for the job. The Engineers of Hope are crafters, distillers, and engineers who look to the tools of the modern day as means to improve the condition of the future. Always searching for new discoveries in the  elds of medicine, engineering, equipment design, and defense while looking for lost knowledge from the pre-fall, the Engineers of Hope risk everything and anything to put together the tools and equipment for the improvement of mankind.
Honorarium
Hundreds of people die every day, and in the wake of the fallen, the lives
of the survivors are forever marked. The Honorarium searches for the places where communities often suffer loss, and ensure that the survivors of the fallen are capable of taking care of themselves. Offering teaching, work, and faith in the times of darkness the Honorarium sees to the pains of the living. The least pleasant portion of an Honorarium’s duties is to put down the undead shells of loved ones,
so that the living survivors need not suffer the pain of separation twice.
Path Finders
Keeping to the open roadways, and ensuring travelers have a light in the darkness, the Path Finders are a nomadic branch of the Sainthood of Ashes. Working tirelessly to clear the roadways and trader paths of the undead threat, the Path Finders also create shelters and safe havens on the side of roadways for travelers to use. Cutting paths to hidden watering holes, marking dangerous territories, and even giving detailed maps and instructions at settlements in regards to the nature of the surrounding territories.
Scribes of the Eternal Teacher
It is the responsibility of every member of the Sainthood of Ashes to oversee
the teaching of the masses. The Sainthood of Ashes provides classes, offers to teach survivors to be stronger, and give what they can so that the individual can provide for themselves. The Scribes of the Eternal Teacher record the knowledge of man to ensure the teachings of the modern day are not forever lost. Often found transcribing Lore books, duplicating blueprints, and deciphering knowledge of the past, the Scribes of the Eternal Teacher  ght to ensure that knowledge is never again lost to the world.
Watchers of the Crossroad
While the members of the Sainthood of Ashes can  ght and survive as well as anyone else (if not better), the Watchers of the Crossroad keep their intent focused and their skills sharpened. Looking for signs of another great fall, the Watchers
of the Crossroad do anything and everything in their power to ensure that a threat such as the zombie plague never can happen again. Finding and destroying pre-fall weapons of mass destruction, assassinating Mad Scientists that are working on plagues, and ensuring that dangerous information is destroyed, the Watchers of the Crossroad never have time to let down their guard.
324

 
 The Nuclear Family
      “In this dog-eat-dog world, the people of the planet have degenerated into
dysfunction and crummy values. Once, we had stability; we had discipline; we had
a moral compass to light our way and for the Almighty to speak through. Yet the
world ignored Ward’s lessons, letting spinsters, Communists, and tramps rule the
globe– and with that came disaster as we know it. Today, we embrace the lessons
left us, and form the indestructible framework of success with trust, honesty,
good manners, and most importantly, a strong family structure in which to heed
Ward’s Words.”
Summary
     When the world abandoned its values, it opened itself up to destruction
and despair. Only by acknowledging the supremacy of the family, and reviving the
morals and family values of generations past, can the world ever hope to come
back from the brink.
History
     Father Ward understood what it was to stave off corruption and destruction,
as the First Prophet and founder of the Nuclear Family. He understood that to
have faith, to endure, was to teach others how best to live their life and learn
through their experiences. When the world turned to drunkenness and Communism,
he preserved his lessons for those that would survive the nuclear holocaust,
so that they could provide for themselves, raise their own Children right, and
demonstrate morality for others.
    While the Church of the Telling Visions has perverted Father Ward’s
teachings with revisionist scripture, the Nuclear Family accepts their role
as traditionalists – before their persecution and wide-spread cancellation by
other cults, the Nuclear Family knew shelter, plenty, suburban paradise and 2.5
children, all made possible by Ward’s Words and strong familial structure. Only
when Ward’s Words were suppressed by these wicked cults did the dead to rise and
the world burn. So it is clear that only with these sacred truths restored to
their rightful place, then good, hardworking people might build their own home
and rise again. It is the Nuclear Family’s duty to provide for their immediate
Family Unit  rst and foremost, but by example, they will bring others into the
fold.
326

 Outlook
     The Nuclear Family stretches far and wide, but acts as a loose network of
groups rather than one large faith. Each Family Unit represents themselves and
holds true to Ward’s Words, but to come together as a large mass would to go
against one of the major principles of the faith– provide for yourself and your
family  rst, and to them be true. Though outsiders would never know it, most
Units of the Nuclear Family are quite distrustful of one another, constantly
at worry that they may not be raising their Children right. Some are jealous,
believing the grass to be greener in the other’s lawn. To anyone else, the
Nuclear Family is naught but polite and cooperative amongst all their own. It’s
important to put forth the image of the perfect family, at all odds.
    While all are welcome in theory, in practice Pure Bloods, Mericans,
Accensors, and a surprising number of Retrogrades account for the majority of
the Nuclear Family– their cultures best support the inclusive and independent
nature of each Family Unit. Many of the other Strains have a dif culty accepting
the simple power of providing creature comforts and stable homes in such an
unstable and dangerous time.
Hierarchy
     Each Unit always consists of the Father, the Mother, and their  ock of
Children. The Father is the patriarchal leader of each family, striving to
follow Father Ward’s example by dispensing worldly advice and assistance among
his  ock, putting his foot down on all hard decisions, and obligated to provide
the best and most comfortable life for them he can. The Mother, while lacking
any  nal say, is there to provide counsel and advice for Father (oft unasked),
and comfort her Children when Father’s discipline might wear harshly upon them.
Children have little responsibilities outside what their Father assigns them,
but must always strive to make Father and Mother proud, show respect and proper
values in all things, and heed the lessons of their Parents.
    While some families are larger, two to three Children are considered the
norm, though it’s a common topic of disagreement between Family Units over what
is the “perfect size”. The movers and shakers of the Nuclear Family are the
Coaches – policy makers, problem solvers, and respected neutralities between the
various Units.
Guiding Tenets
    Faith is family. Keep your family close, and God is on your side.
    Never argue with your Parents, they know what is best for you.
    The Family does not falter nor waver. The Family endures, no matter what.
    Love thy siblings, even when they snitch to Father. It’s for your own good.
    When you make a mistake, admit it. If you don’t, you only make matters
    worse.
    Always treat others with respect, the neighbors might be watching.
    Do not fall to the lures of Communism, and beware the Red Star in uence.

327
 Religious Symbols
The Nuclear Family brandishes prayer cards of long past Saints and Prophets
as symbols of their faith, such as St. Mantle and St. Mays, or the rare and highly coveted visage of Saint Beaver. Family Units typically collect many creature comforts in the course of providing for their family, and prefer dif cult to  nd artifacts from the past that uphold wholesome values - marbles, aprons, conservative board games (typically played with a hodge-podge of pieces) and the like.
Subsects of the Faith
Neilson Family
    Closely tied to the Telling Visionaries, the Neilson Family attempts to be
the spitting image of the perfect pre-fall family. Usually with exactly two to
three children, two parents, and a happy home, the Neilson Family followers are
often the most unnerving members of the Nuclear Family just due to how unshaken
their moralistic code and philosophy has been throughout the years.
The Atomic Home
    The future of the Nuclear Family is now, according to the sect of the
Atomic Home. Throwing aside traditional concepts of the design of the Nuclear
Family, the Atomic Home embraces eccentric mixed Strain families, gender and age
neutral family positions, as well as encouraging free thought and independent
growth within the family. Members of the Atomic Home become a nuclear family
due to shared faith, desire for community, and the ideals of interior loyalty
and linked faith. Many Diesel Jock tribes, traveling caravans, and Old York
structures have adopted the less than traditional structure of the Atomic Home.
The Caretakers
The Caretakers are a branch of the Nuclear Family that focuses on taking
care of the greater community in addition to their own internal family structure. Members of The Caretakers understand that a community is de ned by good neighbors and good neighbor relations. Often taking positions of responsibility in larger communities, the Caretakers oversee the needs and cares of heathen and faithful Nuclear Family member alike. Often times referring to non-nuclear family community members as ‘rebellious teens’ or ‘friends just going through a phase’ the Caretakers believe that the best way to expand the interests of the Nuclear Family is through continuous positive neighborly behavior.
The Neighborhood Watch
    The militant hand of the Nuclear Family, the Neighborhood Watch are a
network of ‘Mothers’ and ‘Fathers’ of the Nuclear Family that eradicate what
they view as unacceptable behavior. While some Neighborhood Watch members focus
on slave trade, drug traf cking, or even heathen religions, other members of the
Neighborhood Watch focus on removing the Red Threat.
Valued Hosts
    Valued Hosts are strange aspects of the Nuclear Family. Often overseeing
less than savory professions such as prostitution, theft, or murder for hire,
Valued Hosts adopt their employees as ‘sons’ and ‘daughters’ of the family.
Each member of a Valued Host’s family is expected to behave by a certain set of
parameters, to follow rules set by the Valued Host, and to act as a repetitive
of the Nuclear Family at all times.
328

 
329
 Church of Darwin
      “Listen all! This is the truth of it. The warring and the nukes were damn
near the death of us all. Look at us now! Busted up, and everyone talking about
hard rain! But we’ve learned, by the dust of those that fell. We kept evolving,
while they stayed the same.”
Summary
     The radiation and mutations that followed in the wake of the bombs falling
killed more than ninety-seven percent of those it came in contact with, most
through a slow, agonizing death. The remaining three percent changed. Muties,
Freaks, Degenerates, call them what you will; the Church of Darwin knows the
truth. They’re the next step in evolution; and this time it won’t take millions
of years, just a few more minutes next to that healthy green glow.
History
As the armies of the world kept falling before a foe that didn’t know pain
or reason, several nations turned to their most desperate solution. A small nation in the east started off the chain of events, bombing its own citizens to prevent
the plague from spreading. Other nations quickly followed suit. When people began crawling out from the ashes in the cities and towns outside the blast areas, within weeks almost all were dead from radiation poisoning. The remaining few, the ‘Three Percenters’ as they took to calling themselves, were changed. Something had affected them on the genetic level; radiation that should simply have killed them instead changed them. Maybe it was the infection. Or maybe, as the Darwinists believe, it was simply time for the next step forward.
At  rst most hid their deformities or new powers. Soon enough, some took them as blessings instead of curses and began to see this situation in a new light. A teenaged girl, Savannah, daughter of a preacher and a scientist, was the  rst to put together the obvious revelation
Darwin was more right than he had ever imagined. The only way to truly
evolve was to force evolution onto the human template. The light given off by the irradiated particles was truth enough. Man had to move towards the light, embracing the change and becoming more human than before.
330

 Eventually Savannah gathered followers, mutants all, who embraced the changes brought on by the radiation, and took the fevered dreams of exposure as prophecy and divine vision. While she  nally succumbed before becoming one with the Light, others have taken up her mantle and continued spreading their faith. The purity of the Old World is past; now is the time to evolve.
Outlook
It is a matter of fact that some individuals who are exposed to radiation change. In the wake of the  rst blasts, three percent of the initial survivors, usually those within the  rst mile outside of a blast radius, found themselves in some way “improved” by the exposure. If a little exposure was good, they reasoned, then a whole lot must be even better. The church is quite simply dedicated to pushing human evolution forward by repeated exposure to radioactive materials.
Sacred temples, otherwise known as Atolls or Shelters, are invariably built around some object that was contained enough within a blast zone as to be thoroughly irradiated. Most glow throughout the night, providing a light for its followers to gather around. Any area which contains higher doses of radiation are looked upon
as sacred, and usually visited in great pilgrimages, designed to enhance the body through further mutation.
Ceremonies take place either immediately after dusk or just before dawn, when the glow from the Atoll’s sacred object can be seen. A common  xture of these ceremonies is a “Telling” of a parable from Savannah’s life, or relating a vision received by the congregation’s resident Cassandra.
Guiding Tenets
The Light is the way and the truth, only exposure can help you evolve.
    Purity of  esh is to be scorned, evolution comes from mutation.
    Seek out the places marked by radiation. Only here can we advance.
    Oppose those who deny the light; show them the way if you can.
    Some call our visions mad; they have not seen the truth.
    Darwin knew we must evolve to survive, Savannah taught us the path; honor
    them with all you do.
Religious Symbols
     Darwin Fish, X-ray tech gear, images of bombs, their mutations, radiation
and fallout symbols.
Hierarchy
Curie: Head of the church in an area. As an honori c men are typically referred to as Pierre, women as Marie.
Cassandra: a member of the church most prone to visions. Usually one who has undergone enough exposure to “the Light” to have mental-related visions.
Civil Corps: the martial arm of the Church, also dedicated to  nding new sources of radiation.

331
 Subsects of the Faith
Mortus Supremus
    An organization within the Church of Darwin, the Mortus Supremus believe
that the world belongs to those who are strong enough to take the world. With a
viewpoint dangerously similar to the Final Knights, the Mortus Supremus believe
that coddling the weak and aiding the sickly only limits the evolution of
mankind. The Mortus Supremus actively seek out weakness and ‘defects’ in day to
day life, and those weaknesses that cannot be made into strengths are culled as
to not drag down the strong.
New Arc Reactors
    The philosophical organization roughly known as the New Arc Reactors are
a reformist group within the Church of Darwin. Seeing the outside world as a
massive technical device that is in a state of disrepair, the members of the
New Arc Reactors attempt to master medical science, Engineering, and SCIENCE!
in the hopes of creating means for improving the world as a whole. While these
goals may seem completely bene cial, there is some argument within the Church of
Darwin in regards to whose vision of a better future is being pursued.
New Horizons
    The Darwinists of New Horizons believe that the answer for the ills of
mankind does not exist within the con nes of the earth, but instead, exist
beyond the horizons of humanity. Aiming to bring mankind to the stars, the New
Horizons push forward with the belief that somewhere beyond the rotted crust
of the planet there is a utopia waiting to be discovered. Limited communication
with far away shores, small islands, and bizarre pre-fall technologies give hope
to the New Horizons organization that one day the Church of Darwin can be gods
walking amongst the stars.
Organus Sempris
    The evolution of the strains of humanity relies on the strength of the
infection, and the opportunities that the infection has provided the faithful.
The Organus Sempris study the changes that occur to the strains of humanity,
animals, and undead with the hopes of unraveling the secrets of the augmented
evolutionary process. The infection, which has caused thousands of different
variations in what was once the human condition, must hold the key to evolving
beyond the con nes of the  esh.
Techno-Evolutionaries
    The followers of the Techno-Evolutionary train of thought believe that the
 esh is weak, and through machine, mankind can evolve. The Techno-Evolutionary
experiment with mechanical limb replacement, brain surgery, and grafting
infected  esh with mechanical design. While the Techno-Evolutionaries have not
shown much in the way of success, this does not break their faith.
332

 
333
 Cult of Fallow Hopes
“Some say that demons aren’t real. That they are a myth made to keep kids
in their beds at night. I’ve seen them, though, and so have you. Some are in the bodies of the dead, come back to torment us with the faces of our loved ones. Others got their horns from staying too close to where the bombs fell. Either way, they are here to test the faithful, and it is my duty to send them back to hell.”
Summary
     This is the Time of Tribulation, and the only way to heaven is to keep
God’s law on earth. The Cult of Fallow Hopes has a duty to destroy the wicked in
this world, in order to pave the way for the next.
History
     Old time religions, those from before the fall, told us that there would be
a time when the dead would walk the Earth and demons would torment the living.
Whether this was the End of Days or just a step before the world was reborn in
 re was never clear, but the duty of the faithful remained; hunt down the demons
and return them to hell.
    Doomsday cults, survivalists, hardcore evangelicals, even those who just saw
too much when the world fell apart; those that lived came together to put things
back right. Some had been training for years, some picked up a gun or a cricket
bat the  rst day they saw the Shambling Horde. For years they were separate
groups, spread throughout the countryside, working at the same goals with no
direct leadership. Whispers began among the groups of a man with a vision who
was teaching them how to take out the dead, ways to avoid the dangers of the
radiation, and their solemn responsibility as God-fearing men and women to
destroy the hell-spawn that were taking over. His name varies depending on who’s
telling the tale; Rockatansky, Eckert, Constantine, the Sergeant, but all agree
on his appearance and demeanor. The man with the long coat and the big hat,
came in their time of need, showed them how to destroy the  ends, and moved on,
telling them that “Hope isn’t dead, it just needs a few seasons to lie fallow.”
Eventually the groups came together and founded the Cult, clearing roads, taking
back towns and kicking ass in the name of the Lord.
334

     After a few years, their disorganization led to more problems than
solutions, and the groups came together from miles apart. Most say a vision
led them to the shell of a bombed-out church, where they sat down and hashed
out their organization. Two parts paramilitary organization, one part church
hierarchy, with a pinch of old feudalism; the Cult began to function like a
well-oiled machine. While the demons are the  rst priority, now and forever,
only slightly behind came discipline. The world descended this far because man
got lazy and forgot the chain of command.
    That will never happen again.
Outlook
     While their individual level of faith varies somewhat, they all adhere
strictly to their internal hierarchy and their duty to purifying the Earth.
Though most consider them to be grim faced and somber, the Cult is not without
joy, they just know that their responsibility comes  rst. When the dead walk the
Earth, the Faithful must send them to hell. Their structure is very military,
with a strong cross-over into church hierarchy. The lesser in rank follow the
greater without question, but they are not mindless. The damned are clever, and
strategic thinking will gain rank faster than strength of arm.
    Ceremonies are serious affairs. Readings are given from old religious works
as well as tales harvested since the fall. Each story is designed to remind
the faithful of the dangers and obligations that they have. At the end of their
dedication to the divine, ranks are awarded, weapons blessed, and duties for the
next few nights are handed out.
    As often as possible, their sacred spaces are old temples reclaimed from
the damned. Despite their reliance on the divine, these buildings are multi-
functional, serving as weapons lockers, barracks, churches and sanctuaries.
Quite often bunks are cleared out to make room for ceremonies, and weapons
stored in altars.
Guiding Tenets
Seek the damned where they dwell; wipe the scourge from the Earth.
    Follow your superior’s commands to the letter, dereliction of duty lead us
    to this fallen world.
    Remain faithful, God is testing us and we must meet the challenge through
    strength of arms.
    Do not trust those who rely on the green glow, they call it radiation, but
    it is the light of hell re.
    A man, even one tainted by hell re, may be redeemed if he  nds the light;
    all are given a second chance. There is no third chance.
Religious Symbols
     Plows, shovels and other gardening implements, hammers, old world holy
symbols, chains to remind them of their duty, military insignia.

335
 Hierarchy
Minister-General: the ultimate authority on matters both martial and divine in a geographic region.
Colonel: in charge of the military duties of the Cult within a diocese. Chaplain: in charge of the religious duties of the Cult within a diocese.
    Second in power only to the Colonel.
Brother or Sister: Any member of the Cult, they may also be assigned military rank.
Subsects of the Faith
Marterum
The Marterum are a belief structure of the Fallow Hopes which believes that
each and every member of the Fallow Hopes has the responsibility to  ght to cleanse the world of evil or die trying. The Marterum believe that the Strains of humanity that currently exist are only steps away from the immortal damned due to the fact that every person who walks the earth carries a portion of the infection plague with them. The demons that walk the face of the earth, the undead, have dug their seeds deep within the strains of humanity. The only hope that members of the Fallow Hopes have in regards to purging themselves of this infernal taint is a martyr’s death.
Recruitment Of cers
    Not every member of the Fallow Hopes can wage war with weapon in hand and
prayers on their lips. Some members of the Fallow Hopes must  ght the social and
political wars of the faith, ensuring that outsiders understand that the focus
and interests of the Fallow Hopes are in the best interests of everyone. The
Recruitment Of cers, the members of the Fallow Hopes more skilled with words
than with sword and gun,  ght as tirelessly as their combatant brothers but
redouble their efforts in regards to public relations for the faith.
Templarus Immortum
    The wrath of the Templarus Immortum is legendary across the wastelands.
Warriors of the Fallow Hopes that will purge entire settlements of ‘the damned’,
the Templarus Immortum focus their efforts on cutting down heretic priests,
saints of wayward religions, and burning out psions. The Templarus Immortum take
their oath to ‘not suffer a witch to live’ very seriously, and as it is branded
upon their collar bones the oath is driven into the heart and mind of the
Templarus Immortum. The Witches, the heathens, the psions, may only be redeemed
by having their infernal brains removed from their bodies.
The Inquisition
    In a faith of black and white, good and evil, the Inquisition is the  nal
word on all aspects of gray. The Inquisition researches the undead so that the
warriors of the Fallow Hopes may  ght more ef ciently. The Inquisition contains
and steals away the radioactive rods of bale re as to ensure they understand
how heretics can use the substance. The Inquisition is the sect of the faith
that is called upon when it is believed that the heart of one of the Fallow
Hopes warriors has been turned to the demonic. The Inquisition determine what is
truth, what is lie, and who must die within the faith of the Fallow Hopes.
336

 The Warring Hammer
    The closest thing to the ‘status quo’ within the Fallow Hopes, The War
Hammer are the collective militaristic troops of the Fallow Hopes that have
been organized into rank and  le. The Warring Hammer, the collective forces of
the Fallow Hopes, are all those active militant members of the faith who raise
weapon and prayer in the name of cleansing the world of the impure.

337
 Final Knights
“What do you mean, redemption? We’re way past that. Look around– does it look like anything is watching over us? So who’s worth your prayers? The ‘loving God’ behind the locked door? The one that never answers? Or the forces still at work all around us?”
Summary
There are those who saw in the fall of the Old World the chance to rebuild or another chance for redemption. Others saw a chance to move backward and recreate a world that had passed before The End. The Final Knights see nothing of the sort; they know for sure that the world has ended and the holy and pure have left. What is left behind is Hell; and as the man said, it is far better to reign in Hell.
History
Although the date was generations past, the world came to an end when the dead began to rise and the mushroom clouds bloomed over the horizon. At the time a young priest struggled to make sense of what had become of the world. He knew for sure that the faithful should be taken away to heaven, but why was he still here? As the  ash of a nuclear detonation took his sight, it opened his mind to the one possible answer; this was Hell. Paradise was lost to him; he had been found wanting.
There was nothing to do but accept his new place in this new world and lead the newly faithful to begin to rebuild the world in Hell’s image. The scars of both Divine and Infernal wrath were all about the world, made manifest where the bombs fell or the dead returned to consume  esh. His prayers moved from the Divine to the Infernal as
he spent hours, days, and weeks in solitude, discovering his new way. After 40 days wandering in the desert of the nuclear wasteland, he had a second revelation. Renaming himself Brother Isaac, he revealed to a ragged group of witnesses that he found the names of the demons who would grant them infernal power, so that he might lead his new followers to their rightful place as masters of Hell on Earth. These were the Final Knights, nothing would come hereafter, and it was the duty of those who remained to complete the transformation and fully create the Infernal on the terrestrial plane.
After many years had passed Brother Isaac’s appearances became less and less
among the Faithless. Others rose,  ghting amongst themselves, to reign over the cult. Tonight the Final Knights recognize a hierarchy determined by the demons they serve, though jockeying for position and internal assassinations are time-tested ways to rise in their pecking order.
338

 Outlook
The Final Knights believe in two basic tenets upon which they build their entire faith; the world that remains after the Fall is Hell, and it is their job to use the power of the Infernal to enforce this view upon the world.
When Brother Isaac had his revelation in the desert, he unlocked the names of Infernal beings who were able to grant him and his followers powers. The exact number of demons, devils or evil gods revealed to him has been in dispute for many years, though the number 33 is most often cited.
Knights gather and share their worship in dark churches called “Gates” in honor of Dante’s Inferno. Above each door are engraved the words “All hope abandon, for ye have already entered” as a reminder that the world itself is Hell. Areas of heavy zombie outbreaks as well as those spots where heavy bombing (especially nuclear bombing) occurred are considered sacred, but also dangerous, as these are the place where
the Infernal last touched the world. And the Infernal tolerates weakness in no one, especially its own followers.
Guiding Tenets This is Hell and we are Damned.
    Power is the true role of the Damned, those who have none should take it. If
    they can’t they do not deserve it.
    Thwart those who would promote the false truths of the divine.
    Uphold the laws of Hell.
    Bring suffering where you can, take power at all times. As the custodians of
    the true way, it is your duty to act as the Infernal’s agent on this world.
    Use the Thirty-Three names of the Infernal to gain more power.
Religious Symbols
Unholy symbols of the church include the number 33, and an eye whose iris has been replaced by a mushroom cloud as a reminder of the way Brother Isaac’s eyes were opened
to the reality of Hell on Earth. Knights adorn with these and implements of torture,  ve- pointed stars (military and otherwise), and references to explosions.
Hierarchy
Pontifex (plural Ponti ces): The highest ranking Knight in an area; to him fall all the sins of those below him. Only he knows all 33 names; when a new Pontifex is made he goes through a ritual which bestows on him the names he does not know.
Lord: Just under a Pontifex, the Lord is responsible for a number of deacons. They generally know at least 15 of the Names entrusted to Brother Isaac.
Deacon: A Knight who has taken his devotion to a higher level to become essentially a priest of the Final Knights is called a Deacon. Only Deacons and higher are taught the Names.
Damned: Any Knight is technically damned, those undergoing entry into the church through the Rite of Condemnation are considered full members of the church. When speaking of a member of the church they can be called “A Damned” or collectively “the Damned.”

339
 Subsects of the Faith
Architects of the Fallen
    The Architects of the Fallen believe that this world is hell, and that
judgment has been passed upon the living. Unlike most members of the Final
Knights the Architects of the Fallen are taking a proactive approach to ensure
that the future of the wastelands will be a future without the scriptures of the
other faiths. Disproving faith through science, rewriting old world documents to
eradicate the importance of faith, and destroying religious artifacts whenever
possible, the Architects of the Fallen are thinking of the long plan instead of
this one instant in Hell.
Bone Collectors
    The Bone Collectors are what most outsiders think of whenever they think
of the Final Knights. Deadly religious zealots that introduce suffering to the
masses for enlightenment, assassinate priests and religious leaders, and unleash
untold suffering on the mass populace. Most Bone Collectors act under the cover
of a false identity, allowing themselves to insert themselves into communities
as trusted friends and neighbors. These identities allow for the Bone Collector
to act unseen, causing the most effective acts of betrayal.
Shepherd of the Lost
    Even the lords of the damned occasionally take pity on the ignorant and
uneducated. The Shepherds of the Lost are a facet of the Final Knight faith that
teaches both the unknowing and the unwilling the tenets of the Final Knights.
Taking great efforts to sculpt the future of individual ‘students’ like pets,
the Shepherds of the Lost ensure that their chosen student always suffer to
overcome, see the futility in humility and passion, and refuse to bend to the
weak and witless. More than one Shepherd of the Lost has faced their own demise
at the hands of the student they have wisely raised.
Undying Monks
    Within agony there is wisdom, within madness there is truth, and within
suffering there is strength. The followers of the Undying Monks delve into
the truth of existence through the extreme excesses of masochistic suffering,
sadistic rituals, and sensory deprivation. Originators of the dark rights of
de lement, the decree to purge Vegasia, and the heartless monsters at the nexus
of the Final Knights, the Undying Monks cause ripples of torment and destruction
in their wake.
Player Advisory
    While membership in the Final Knights is not forbidden per se, players
should consider very carefully before choosing this faith for their characters.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, many other faiths consider the Knights heretics of the
most dangerous sort; even many secular organizations forbid their presence due
to the destabilizing effect they tend to have on communities. To make matters
worse, fanatical Knights have been behind a number of notorious atrocities,
leading many survivors to adopt a ‘shoot  rst, then shoot again, then stomp on,
then stab a few times, then ask questions if they’re somehow still alive’ policy
when it comes to known members of the Damned.
340

 
 Virtues of the Kings Court
“The world did not fall when the infection began. The world did not fall when the  re rained down from the sky. The world, the world died many seasons before that. Before the coming of the  re, before our sins of the past rose from the dead, before the death of the human culture came a death that truly marked the end of the world. We speak of the day that the music died.
We must bring the music back, we must give reverence to the Kings who have passed before, and through their wisdom and inspiration we can survive another day. Our gangs, our bands, pull together by the inspiration of their words. When two of our gangs meet, we rumble, but in the end we do not kill. There is no blood on the dance  oor.”
Summary
The world that went before left a legacy in the air, which can still be found when the dials are right and the antenna is high. While the Telling Vision followers look for lights and sights, the followers of the Kings listen for the music they
can feel beneath their skin.
History
Throughout time there have been hundreds of kings, rulers whose voices could bend hearts, whose words could inspire nations. Those Kings and Queens, icons of the past, gave birth to words of inspiration and ways of living that need to be rekindled. We pull together with depictions of our loyalty to our Kings, we dress in their image, we memorize their sonnets, and we live as they would have wanted to live.
Over the decades we have come together, and our bands have fought one another, we strengthen ourselves by combating those who follow foreign Kings. We do not slay those who follow the words of other Kings, since we have taught them the strength of our song.
Outlook
“The Telling Visions speak of the signal, of the great broadcast... but they do not understand. The signal, the signal was nothing more than a way for the Kings to preach to us. The Light of Hedon, the Light speaks of Saturday Night... but while they work for the weekend we will party in the streets. The Nuclear Family wants us home by curfew, but parents just don’t understand that we are the voice of the new generation. Fallow Hopes... Ashes? Keep to the past and be run over by the future.
342

 We are the disciples of the Kings of Rock. We are the Children of Soul. We are
the future lords to serve our Diva Queens. The world is a tough place, the streets are full of brain dead zombies that need to be rolled. Our King, our Queen, our Saint, we must prove that our rhythm is the next beat.”
Hierarchy
     Those that follow the Virtues of the Kings Court are organized into bands
and groups no more than a handful of people who worship the same icon. These
icons, Kings and Queens of old, are the bardic skalds of a time before the fall
of man that dictate the activities and actions of each gang. These bands are
organized under a single ‘front man’ (the term ‘front man’ is gender neutral).
    On high holidays, important periods of time from the Kings and Queens of
these bands –release dates, birthdays, date of death, whatever can be discovered
– massive celebrations are hosted by individual bands. Bands also ‘battle’ one
another, claiming local bragging rights and better territories, and sometimes
they gather together in super-groups to take on a single threat before splitting
up again. Peace never reigns long on the dance  oor.
Guiding Tenets
    The voice, words, and spirit of your leader is the voice, spirit, and word
    of your band. They interpret the voices of the King or Queen you follow.
    Faith is more than just following blindly. Prove the strength of your faith
    by challenging the faiths of others. Strengthen all, not to destroy.
    Celebrate as the Kings and Queens would. Fight as they would. Live as they
    would dream us to live. Die with the beat on your lips.
    Recover the icons of your fallen skalds, but do not worship them. The day
    the music died has come and gone, and these icons are nothing but ghosts.
    Let all who walk in your presence give respect to your King or Queen.
    Let your battle hymns be heard, as the mindless and soulless undead are sent
    to their  nal rest. One day we will be able to bring these songs to the
    masses again, and one day you will be called upon to recite them.
Religious Symbols
    Dress as your King or Queen would dress. Colors, styles, and paraphernalia.
    Recreate the splendor of the forgotten age with the scraps we now have.
Icons such as musical instruments, CDs, Posters, Pins, and ‘Tee- Shirts’.
    An icon of authority, often different for every band, is carried by the
front man. Items such as tablatures, lyrics, imagery, and other icons.
    The band. Each follower must either be a part of a gang or band, or look to
form a new project with new members. Solo artists never survive for long.

343
 Subsects of the Faith
The Kings of Rock
    Despite the masculine term ‘King’ the Kings of Rock are not focused as
either male or female members. Followers of the many faceted rockers of the
pre-fall skalds, the Kings of Rock are known to be the loudest and rowdiest
followers of the Virtues of the Kings Court. Always looking for a drink, a
party, and a cause to follow, the Kings of Rock believe it is better to burn out
than to fade away.
The Queens of Soul
    Despite the female term ‘Queen’ the Queens of Soul are not either a male
or female predominant organization. The Queens of Soul tend to follow skalds
with a slower, deeper, and more potent vocal message than most followers of the
Virtues of the Kings Court. Looking for meaning in the words, inspiration in the
context, and emotion in the tones, the Queens of Soul understand that the music
of old speaks to the soul and not to the ear.
Road Crew
    Not every follower of the Virtues of the Kings Court is a capable musician,
is an encyclopedia of musical knowledge, or a talented music broadcast
professional. Some of the most devoted members of the court, the Road Crew,
follow the word and spirit of the Virtues of the Kings Court without every
singing a single note. With the song in their heart, with the beat in their
steps, and the music on their mind, the members of the Road Crew do all of the
less than glamorous work that is necessary to keep the music alive. Recovering
the relics of music, crafting the instruments of the court, and learning the
SCIENCE! to ensure that radio towers continue to broadcast, the Road Crew are
the unsung heroes of the Kings Court.
Priests of Sound
    The Priests of Sound understand that the day the music died has come and
gone, but fear that another wave of silence may come some day in the future.
Priests of Sound are a secretive organization of follower of the Virtues of the
Kings Court that create vaults to store copies of music, hide away instruments,
and ensure that the blueprints for radio broadcast and receiving equipment are
never lost again. While the Telling Vision towers are almost all dead and gone,
the Priests of Sound ensure that new radio broadcast units can be created for
the future. The most devoted of members of the Priests of Sound have musical
scores, sheet music, or blueprints for radio devices tattooed into their skin.
The hope is that even if the Priest of Sound dies, the skin of the zombie they
become may give hints to future generations to unlock the secrets of music.
344

 
 Tribes of the Seasons
    “The world was new, the seasons changed.
    The world grew, the seasons changed.
    The world thrived, the seasons changed.
    The world stumbled, the seasons changed.
    The world fell, the seasons changed.
    The world has died, and still, the seasons change.”
Summary
     There are four great deities to the Tribes of the Seasons, each ruling for
only a few lunar cycles. The Tribes watch the skies, watch the trees, and know
the signs of the cycles. The Tribes celebrate each turn of the season, knowing
that with proper offerings the wheel will continue to turn.
History
     The Tribes of the Seasonz are a religion based on the idea that each
turning season is unto itself its own re ection of God. The Spring is the
re ection of growth, and a time for celebration and sowing the  elds. The
Summer is the aspect of hunting and crafting, where the  elds are tilled and
Scrap of the year is crafted. The Fall marks the time of death, where wars are
traditionally started and excursions clearing away the undead horde are most
common. Lastly, the Wynter is a time of slumber and spiritual introspection.
    Each follower is assigned to a Tribe, based on what natural skills they
exhibit. The Tribe of Spring mostly is  lled with Farmers, Scavengers, and
those that gather the product from the land. The Tribe of Summer has Brewers,
Builders, and Crafters that  ll its ranks. Those of Fall are strong warriors who
bring destruction to the undead who plague the seasons. Lastly, those strong of
mind such as Priests, Scholars, and other educated sorts rule the Wynter. Each
Tribe of Season conducts rites in regards to the honoring of their season, and
each in turn rule the Tribes as a whole when their season is ascendant.
Outlook
     “The children who do not watch the seasons do not understand what it is
that is provided for them. We do not hate them for their ignorance, and if one
were to ask of our views I would gladly host them and teach them, if it were my
season and right to do so.
346

     Those who represent the season that we are in are to be followed, but not at
the expense of abandoning the faith you follow of the season you watch. Be the
advisor to those whose season is in rule, if it is not yours, but bend to their
decisions.”
Hierarchy
     Each Tribe of Season has one leader, chosen at the coming of the
appropriate season. That leader is responsible for orchestrating and designing
the rites of that season, until the time that season comes to an end. The
seasons are marked by the natural turn of the world and by signs of the change,
not by some arbitrary date or number of days of rule. In places where the
seasons do not change steadily (warm climates with long summers and short
winters, etc.) the appropriate ruling season is in charge for longer periods of
tim...
    ...obviously they are smiled upon by their season.
Guiding Tenets
    The cycle of the seasons is proof that the world will continue, and that
    there are forces outside the suffering of this world that we cannot
    understand.
    Each season must rule in kind, if a season is without followers, then none
    rule during that period and no decisions can be made.
    Mark the turning of the seasons with the natural rites; never turn another
    away from your ceremonies.
    The seasons rule in all places that the seasons exist, be it forest or be it
    city. Do not let the ways of the local people sway your faith.
    Those of the tribe may call on the aid of the other tribes in turn with
    their season.
    Let our Springs be fruitful, our Summers productive, our Autumns feared, and
    our Wynters insightful.
Religious Symbols
    Markings, colors, and insignias appropriate for your season.
    Places of worship dedicated to your season.
    Offerings of the labors linked with your faith.
    Calendars and devices which mark the passing of time (sun dials).

347
 Subsects of the Faith
Children of Father Night
    With members following each of the four seasons, the Children of Father
Night are primarily a Lascarian branch of the Tribes of the Seasons. Offering
sacri ces to Father Night and Mother Luna, the Children of the Night embrace the
nocturnal aspect of nature. Often dressed in the skins of wolves, owl masks, and
the markings of other nocturnal creatures. The Children of Father Night often
take the tokens and totems of nocturnal animals appropriate for the season of
which they are a part.
Crow Eaters
    The Crow Eaters are an aspect of the Tribes of the Seasons which leans
heavily towards the followers of Fall and Wynter. Brutal tacticians,  erce
warriors, and vicious savages that focus primarily on the act of war, the Crow
Eaters earn their name by leaving the  elds of battle  lled with corpses for
the crows to eat. In turn the members of the Crow Eaters adorn themselves with
feathers and skulls of carrion birds, believing these markings will ward away
the carrion birds (and with that death itself).
Natural Order
    The Natural Order is a more mainstream and accepted by outsiders than many
other paths of the tribes of the season. Seeing the growth, cycle, and existence
of the living earth as proof of the strength of the Tribes of the Seasons, the
Natural Order does not actively seek to destroy the devices of science that
outsiders rely on. Instead of waging war, the Natural Order provides examples of
how the world provides simpler, more reliable, and more natural tools to achieve
the same effect; knowing that the tools of science will rot away with time.
Redeemed Earth
    The sect of the Redeemed Earth sees that the world as a natural progression
of a river. Each action that a person takes, each decision a person makes, is
nothing but another stone in the riverbed of time. The Redeemed Earth sees the
actions of pre-fall man as nothing more than stones that need to be moved, and
will be moved, in time. More passive, introspective, and purposeful than many
other members of the Tribes of the Seasons, the followers of the Redeemed Earth
look to  nd peace with their environment while gauging every thought and motion
they take with the greatest degree of consideration.
348

 
 Light of Hedon
     “Eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow, or maybe even an hour from now,
we die. When the excrement hit the oscillating device, there wasn’t much of a
reason to worry about the future, it was over. Get it while you can.”
Summary
Greed, sloth, gluttony, lust, and all the rest of the Seven are the only way to make anything of what’s left. What good is scrambling to life for another week while starving and thirsty, when you can eat and drink it all tonight while having your way with the girl next door?
History
Most whispered that Bambi Thumper must have been a mutie, changed by the radiation as it rained from the sky; it was known that from before the Fall she was called “Bunny of the Month”. Despite the challenges she needed to overcome, she taught the lessons she had kept since ancient times, some of which are still remembered, some of which are sadly lost.
After the Fall she led a small group of people on a quest to rebuild their pleasure. Taking each Saturday night as sacred, they put down their tools and spent the night reveling, sleeping late into the day on Sunday. Curiously, those who did found themselves much more ready to pick up work on Monday, and so dedicated much more time to preparing for the weekly revels. Eventually, they had rebuilt a place where they could spend more and more time experiencing life, and less toiling on the construction from the ashes. Before she died, one night after a particularly long revel she taught several hierophants the secrets of 7 Ways to Make Him Say Wow!, How to Make the Perfect Cosmo, and Secrets to Cheating when you don’t have all the ingredients.
Now if someone can just  nd the secrets of the lost ‘Altoid Trick’.
Outlook
Guided by the Seven Deadly Sins, the teachings of the Lost of Vegas, and the teachings of the ancients to live life, the Light of Hedon seeks no truer enlightenment than a full belly, a drunk head and a quickie with your neighbor’s wife. Considered by some to be frivolous, the Enlightened take their pleasures very seriously. Most have seen loved ones succumb to radiation poisoning, devoured by the walking dead, or gunned down by raiders looking for clean water or a few Scraps of food. When one knows with certainty that one will die, why shouldn’t one make the most of what they have now?
350

 Ceremonies take place on Saturday nights, when the Enlightened gather to sup on the  nest foods, eat the most sumptuous meals and then revel in debauchery late into the night. While the ultimate goal of an Enlightened is to take no care in any action and revel in pleasure until death, most spend their weeks preparing for their Saturday night ceremonies when they can leave their cares for a few hours, and stop working to start living.
Sacred temples are usually a cross between a strip club and a Turkish harem. Soft fabrics, pillows and neon lights dominate. The simplest are a place curtained off from the World with a few spare pillows, while the most luxurious have sacred rooms for intercourse, wine cellars and –of course– vomitoriums.
Guiding Tenets
Stop trying to plan, there is no tomorrow, there may not be a later today.
    Enjoy yourself while you can, there is no vice anymore, the gods of
    temperance have left us.
    Oppose no one, but do not let them prohibit you from enjoying what you can.
    Show others the pleasure of the now, offer them a drink and a bed.
    Each person who worries more about the now will help you enjoy it more.
    Do not worry about the Eight Commandments or the Six Habits of Highly
    Effective People; those were of the world before.
    The Seven are the guide to supreme enjoyment, do not leave any out
Religious Symbols
     Bottles of wine and beer, martini glasses, shisha pipes, erotic literature,
pictures and statues, luxurious beddings, Cosmo.
Hierarchy
    Hierophant: the supreme leader of the Light of Hedon in an area. This
    Enlightened is usually the one who has to do the least work to maintain
    their lifestyle, and is looked to help provide for the newest members.
    Host or Hostess: master of a local temple, looked up to and expected to host
    Saturday night revels
    Playmate or Playboy: one baptized into the faith by having participated in a
    holy rite and pledging themselves to the gods of plenty.
Subsects of the Faith
Chosen of Excess
Some followers of the Light of Hedon  nd revelation in the experience of the moment. Knowing that every moment may be your last allows a degree of reckless abandon with life. If you do not need to live to see tomorrow, then you do not need to concern yourself with anything other than today. The Chosen of Excess take this philosophy to a new level by embracing each sin to such an extreme that they court self destruction. The Chosen of Excess take it upon themselves to become an embodiment of the guiding sins; some choose to embody a single sin, while others attempt to push themselves to ascend through pushing their limits through each of the sins one at a time.

351
 Crafters of Sin
    The followers of the Light of Hedon are intended to take pride in their
work, to enjoy their work, and to embrace enlightenment by  nding pleasure
in even the most rudimentary aspects of day to day life. The Crafters of Sin
have taken it upon themselves to focus their abilities towards expanding the
experience of others through the creation of new tools of Hedon. Crafters of
brews of the highest quality, builders of entertaining equipment, and designers
of incredible pieces of artwork, the Crafters of Sin have poured their passion
into their work, and work with their passions.
Hosts of Sensation
    Blessed are the Hosts, for the Hosts guide the Light of Hedon to the masses.
The Hosts of Sensation focus their interests and desires in regards to the
teachings of Hedon’s Light. Hosts do not embrace the sins of the Light directly,
but instead, pull a much deeper and richer experience by riding the group high
of dozens of people embracing the sins. The Hosts of Sensation orchestrate and
organize large celebrations, trade routes of recreational supplies, and sponsor
artists to perform for the pleasure of the masses.
Wrath of the Seven
    Even the playboys and playgirls of the Light of Hedon have a militant force
within their ranks, and that militant force is known as the Wrath of the Seven.
Guardians, psychotic warriors, bouncers, body guards, and assassins, the members
of the Wrath of the Seven oversee the interests of the Light of Hedon. Taking
orders directly from local Hosts and Hostesses, the Wrath of the Seven often
blur the rule of ‘taking no pleasure in death’. At times viewed as a heretical
sect, the Wrath of the Seven are accepted as a necessary evil.
352

 
 Regions of the World
The following materials have been provided to help players envision their play area to a greater level. The names of the regions use real world land markers instead of the post-apocalypse Dystopia Rising terminology. While in-game, areas should be referred to by their genre appropriate and in-character titles, instead of the out-of-character regional reference points. For further information and details on each of these regions, please reference the Dystopia Rising Table Top materials.
With the Dystopia Rising LARP network growing, and the number of games that now exist, it is impossible to give high details of every region in this book. Instead, we intend on giving you a broader and more generalized description, with the names of a few key locations in each area.
We know that we cannot possibly cover the entire globe with the detail it deserves, but we will strive to provide enough materials that you should be able to extrapolate between two de ned areas of the map. Locations are divided by Continent, Country, and then Region in the instance that the country is larger.
African Continent
Northern Africa
With the rise of the waters along the Nile Valley, much of the landscape of the Northern African Continent has been terra-formed into a lush landscape with rich grasslands, fertile soil, and only a few signs of radiation via the regularly mutating wildlife. With over a dozen variations of infection-bearing elephants, one story tall warthogs, and hundreds of swarms of carnivorous hyenas, this territory has begun to grow into a new world. The Strains of the post-fall are not unknown on the Northern African Continent, as powerful Pure Blood families and Natural One Tribes live with very little con ict in the rich resources of the Northern African Continent.
Western Africa
With much of the coastline shattered and broken, the landscape of the Western African Continent appears much different than it did before the fall. With a series of deep rivers cutting inward and dumping into large naturally forming basins, society has begun to regrow only a few miles inland. With the majority
of pre-fall structures of the area having been washed away with the swelling tides, here in the West African Continent, high populations of Salt Wise reside in communities that dot the shoreline, as well as travel inland by rivers connecting to large oceanic bays. On the Western Africa continent massive swarms of the undead threat not only rise from the rich soil, but also regularly get washed into the bays and harbors. As the tide pulls outward, entire inlets will go shallow, and allow masses of the undead to return to the shores. It is said there is
a massive necropolis named New Ibadan that has been erected by local Full Dead residents.
354

 Central Africa
    The heart of the Central African Continent is a dense series of jungles and
wetlands that are surprisingly less irradiated than the rest of the wastelands.
Deep in the living jungles of what was once Central Africa, newly evolved fungus
and bioluminescent clinging moss hang to the trees and thick canopies, washing
the ground with an unearthly glow.  In the glow that radiates beneath the thick
canopy of trees, the indigenous life of the continent has adapted to the dim
light sources beneath the trees.  The glowing fauna of the area, working as
limited  lter to radioactive material, allows  the cultures that reside within
the Central Africa region to exist without many of the illnesses and diseases
that populate the rest of the wastelands.   Thousands of tribal families of Pure
Bloods and Rovers live deep in the jungles of Central Africa, nearly completely
ignorant of the existence of the outside world.
Eastern Africa
    The beauty that is the Eastern African Continent survived much of the
destruction that marred the rest of the world.  In the wasteland that is the
modern day, the East African Continent remains a place of beauty and wonder.
With the high rises of the landscape, the rich  shing ports that have grown
into bustling settlements, and the rich soil that offers bountiful resources
the territory of the Eastern African Continent is a veritable paradise in which
civilization could be reborn.  Here in a rich and bountiful environment oceanic
born Salt Wise work in harmony with the many varied strains of the territory.
As you look to the population as a whole, it is found that the majority of the
Strains that reside within the East African Continent are primarily de ned as
Remnants.  However, if one were to observe the birthing cycles of the newest
generations one would see that genetic speci c traits have begun to form in the
area, suggesting the genesis of completely new Strains unseen outside of the
territory.
Southern Africa
    With the loss of the majority of the low laying coastal areas of the South
African continent, the more interior mountainous regions have become a series
of islands extending outward into the ocean from the raised mainland.   Along
the drowned coastline, a number of massive landlocked barges have become a
swarming metropolis of survivor Strains.  Ruled by a cult-like leadership, the
majority of the cultures of the South Africa continent worship their noble-
born leadership hierarchies as living embodiments of the gods.  Across the
landscape the settlement leaders live in adorned shrines of hammered gold and
raw diamonds, while entire communities war one another with devoted zealotry.
The most in uential of the families, descendants of Pure Blood, Diesel Jock, and
Nation of Accensor lineage, fuel the tribal war machines that spill more blood
than the undead.
Asian Continent
Northern Asia
    After the reawakening of a number of the volcanic mountains in the Northern
Asian Continent, the territory that once spanned the territories that were once
Kazakhstan and Russia have become a strange mixture of both  re and ice.  Along
the northern-most regions of the Northern Asian continent, the permanent frost
of the landscape offers both death and refuge for those that reside within the
territory’s existing settlements.  Miles of underground bunkers, networks of
carved caves, and entire civilizations of Lascarians have carved a home within
the warmth of the earth.

355
     While the cold irradiated winds scour the surface, freezing and ripping
away at the  esh of those on the surface, entire generations have been birthed
beneath the ground.  Tapping into the warm springs in the mountains, taking
advantage of the thermal dynamics of the earth, and even using the deep ice as
sources of mostly clean water, life continues under the frozen misery.  Not all
settlements in Northern Asia are underground however, as entire civilizations
of Retrogrades and Red Star have kept above ground communities alive in the
more southern and central regions of Northern Asia.  In addition to the strong
communities of Retrograde and Red Star cultures, a large number of Full Dead
have awakened from their pre-fall graves.  It is rumored that the tombs and
shrines of Northern Asia have become homes for the reawakened dead.
Central Asia
    There are few that witness the landscape that is the Central Asian Continent
who are not forever changed by the horrors of the destructive power of the pre-
apocalypse humans.  Across the continent of Central Asia span craters larger
than the entirety of all of Old York.  Across the Central Asian Continent,
massive  elds of radiation consuming fungus have grown in deep lakes created
by thousands of explosions.  Miles and miles of the landscape of the Central
Asian Continent is, to this day, an irradiated wasteland in which only the
heartiest Retrogrades are capable of surviving.    On the southern-most reaches
of what was once the Continent of Central Asia, the radiation and wastelands
have receded enough to allow the beginning of life.  Here all Strains have taken
to nomadic life as a means to survive not only the dangerous environment, but
also the heavily irradiated zombies that swarm the territory in the millions.
Rovers, Diesel Jocks, and a handful of Strains indigenous to the area have taken
to building mobile caravan empires in the pitted and irradiated lands.
Western Asia (Middle East)
    On the Southern Asia portion of the Asian continent, the militarized
cultures of the pre-fall era adapted well to the fall of mankind and the rise
of the undead.  Generations old cultural enemies banded together to resist the
growing undead threat.  While humanity did indeed fall in Southern Asia as it
did in the rest of the world, the xenophobic strains of Southern Asia were
able to carry on the light of their human ancestors with very little loss of
resources.  Now Western Asia begins to adapt old world technologies to survive
in the limited resource, damaging, and highly irradiated modern world.
Southern Asia
    While the world has died and been reborn a dozen times over, much of
the culture of the Southern Asian Continent lives on through its people.  A
territory rich with culture expressed in its mercantile, artwork, music, and
communities, the Southern Asian Continent is the geographic location of the
wastelands most heavily saturated with swarms of the undead.  Between the
artifacts that adventurous architects  nd and the sheer volume of the undead,
the survivors of the modern age have been able to paint a somewhat accurate
picture of the scale and size of the humans of the pre-fall.  While the Southern
Asian Continent occasionally suffers from thick brackish clouds of radiation
that blow into the area, devastating oceanic activities, landscape that has
been pitted by pre ll explosions, and terrifying storms that rain poison from
the skies, the people of the Southern Asian Continent have adapted to survive
these conditions.  Using the high mountain tops and stilt raised structures,
the diverse and varied people of the Southern Asian Continent have learned to
live just outside of death’s reach.  With Raiders nowhere near as common as,
say, areas such as the North and South American Continent, the majority of the
threats of the Southern Asian continent can be overcome with vigilance and sound
engineering design.
356

 Eastern Asia
One of the last standing outposts of humanity, many generations lived and
died in Eastern Asia during the apocalypse, prior to the rise of the new strains. Evidence points to the fact that the predecessors to the Genjian were born from experimentations and medical remedies produced in Eastern Asia during the fall of humanity. While these drugs were able to allow a handful of generations to try
and save humanity from extinction, eventually the evolution of the fungal plague adapted to the Eastern Asian medical technologies. While Eastern Asia was able to hold out the longest, and even had limited success in reintroducing colonies around the world, the incredibly potent adaptation of the fungal plague has riddled Eastern Asia with some of the deadliest zombies in the entire wastelands. The medical techniques that were meant to save humanity instead later spawned the Genjian as well as the zombie commonly known as a hunter.
Southeastern Asia
Southeastern Asia has returned to a point of existence that leaves very little suggestion of the existence of humanity. Deep within the dense jungles, and hidden beneath feet of rapidly growing radiation consuming fungus, the remains of cities and civilizations may be dug out and rediscovered. Across Southeastern Asia, massive adapted mutations of creatures have taken to these jungles, with the food chain reasserting itself in the dense foliage. Massive lizards and adaptive birds, not unlike the dinosaurs, thrive where only pockets of modern Strains are able to eke out an existence.
Australian Continent
Western Australia
Welcome to the wasteland too deadly for zombies to last in. On the Western Australian Continent, the adaptation of wildlife has made the territory far too dangerous for most creatures of limited sentience to exist in. This statement includes many Strains. Save for a handful of Natural One and local indigenous Strains, the Western Australian Continent is a place completely overtaken by the indigenous wild life. Massive raptor-like birds, descendants of the Cassowary that have now grown to nearly 8 ft in height, defend sections of territory with fruit bearing trees. These monstrous and aggressive birds destroy anything living or dead that comes near their territory. What undead do stalk the wastes are infested with swarms of deadly funnel spiders. Massive irradiated boars thunder across the high grass, wielding more striking force than a Goliath zombie. While other portions of the wastelands have seasons such as spring, summer, fall, and winter, the territory of Western Australian Continent has the tolerable, warm, hot, and burning seasons.

357
 Northern Territory
    While the chaos of the overgrowth has claimed much of what was once the
Australian Continent, the land that was known as the Northern Territory has
been transformed by heat,  re, and radiation.  Off the northern coast of the
territory new volcanic eruptions has caused a series of multiple mile islands to
grow out of the sea, and on the mainland the heat and the hard soil has baked
most indigenous life to non-existence.  Giant clefts in the land, the deep red
hue of the irradiated soil, and the newly erupted volcanic terrain has made the
landscape of the northern ridges nightmarish.  It isn’t until one travels more
near the center of the mainland of the Australian Continent, that stiff reed
like grasses, harsh bushes, engorged lizards, and massive insects overtake the
burning nightmare of the Northern Territory.  Despite the horri c nature of the
landscape and the unlivable climate, some tribes still make expeditions into the
burning wastes.  While the more pragmatic tribes traverse the area to harvest
obsidian, some extremist Darwinist cults believe that by overcoming the tortures
of what was the Northern Territories, one can truly evolve and  nd the heart of
Darwin.
South Australia
    On what was the continent of Australia, South Australia has become a
promised land to many a people.  The land is rich with tribes of Natural
Ones, Rovers living nomadic lives, and even Pure Blood settlements working
hand in hand with Baywalker docks along the shoreline.  It is said that when
the infection  rst hit the largest cities of the continent of Australia, that
many of those who resided in the cities  ed to the south in hopes of organized
safety.  As the generations moved on, the land grew into chaos, and the sadistic
and cruel thrived in the territory that was to be known as Hellbourne.  Those
that wished to live a civilized life moved to the west, and embraced the edge of
the frontier.  While many thousands of people died, others were able to adapt
to the natural provisions of the territory.  Life, while good, is not easy for
those that reside in the territory that was once known as South Australia.  The
ravaging and raiding Diesel Jock clans of the Hellbourne region disrupt major
commerce.  The indigenous life of the area is both deadly and brutal.  The
storms that strike the continent can bring ravaging winds, electrical storms,
and hail that is large enough to kill on impact.  However, despite all of the
efforts of the environment to crush the people of South Australia they weather
on with the dedication and good spirit that they earned from their ancestors.
Queensland
    Now commonly known as the Frontier of the Australian Continent, the
territory that was once Queensland bleeds from the burning and irradiated
wastes of the western portion of the territory to a more civilized farming
territory to the east.  In the territory known as the Frontier, Natural One and
Accensorites populate the territory with traveling hunting packs and smaller
farming communities.  The locals have created ‘Bird Borders’ as a primary means
of defense.  These ‘Bird Borders’ are a series of strategically placed fruit
tree forests that draw the western Engorged Cassowary birds.  These birds, with
incredibly sharp claws and vile aggressive attitudes, attack any undead that
are drawn towards the inward territories, providing an ample border of feathers
and death.  On occasion the population of Engorged Cassowary birds become
too large for the area, and threaten to travel inward to  nd new sources of
food.  Fortunately many of the local Natural One tribes as well as the Tribes
of the Season have taken to having Cassowary hunting as a right of adulthood.
Entire squads of youth look to prove their worth by bringing back talismans of
Cassowary claws.  This regional tradition assists in making sure that the local
populations of both Engorged Cassowary birds -as well as local children- do not
outgrow the available food sources of the territory.
358

 New South Wales
    The swollen waterways of the New South Wales portion of the Australian
continent is the perfect symbolism of the dichotomy in the post-apocalyptic
culture on the Australian continent.  After the shattering of a number of
the pre-fall dams, and the rising of the oceanic waters, the New South Wales
territory has become divided.  With the mainland shaped somewhat like a swollen
crescent moon and what was once Sydney shining as a standalone island, it is
almost as if the primal mainland has divorced the partially drowned island of
Sydney from itself.  With the complex buildings, culture, and economics of the
secondary Isle being a culture of in uence and social networking, the main body
of the New South Wales territory has returned to a more pragmatic culture.   The
largest of the New South Wales continental settlements, home to the tribal lords
of the Canberra Council, resides miles inland from the more ‘high thinking’
island refuge.  As the culture of the island has grown to posturing, proper
breeding, and networking, the opposite has happened in the mainland of the New
South Wales territory.  Pragmatic and ‘down to earth’ mindsets primarily govern
the farming, ore gathering, and sheep herding tribes in the area.  The primary
threat that the territory faces does not come through the undead, but instead
throngs of thrill seeking Diesel Jocks who have bred with the local Raider
tribes.
Victoria
    Along the southern most portion of the Australian Continent, the bay of
Hellbourne has become a burning spire of chaos in the wastelands.  Overrun
with sadistic Diesel Jock clans, Thrill Kill Raider Tribes, and some of the
most depraved Hedonists the world has known, what was once a community of arts
and ideas has become an oceanic bay dotted with sadists and the depraved.  The
total lawlessness of the Victoria territory on the Australian Continent would
be reason enough to avoid it completely, if it were not for the steady supply
of fuel oil that the Diesel Jocks are capable of piping to the mainland.
Operational re neries on the coast leave belches of  re and smoke clogging the
skies while lost resources of blood and oil spill into the bay.
Tasmania
    The necropolis island of Tasmania is still known as Tasmania in the
post-fall world.  The cities, towns, and culture of pre-fall Tasmania has
been enshrined by a number of Full Dead and Unborn of Teixiptla who have
painstakingly rebuilt the settlements and buildings of the pre-fall era to a
near identical likeness.  There are slight variances in the visual design of
Tasmania, as a handful of sections of the territory are remembered in con icting
ways by the inhabitants, or are not remembered at all.  While the ports of
Tasmania have been rebuilt almost identically as they were at the fall of man
(due to the historic and long unchanging nature of the area) other portions
of the island were wracked with earthquakes and rising waters to obscure the
landscape.

359
 European Continent
Northern Europe
    The bombs which irradiated much of southern Europe left Northern Europe
virtually untouched. In the land of the midnight sun, cold and ice rule the day.
Frozen zed march along the icy plains as packs of Raiders seek out warmth. With
lower population numbers, Northern Europe managed to survive the Infection. Now,
the survivors eke out a living along the coasts, eating what they can pull from
the waters. Their biggest enemy, though, is the relentless cold.
British Isles
    When the world fell, the British Isles succumbed more quickly than most. The
dense population caused corpses to pile up faster than they could be removed.
The screams of the dying echoed through cities populated only by the dead. Bombs
rained down on cities in an effort to control the spread of the Infection—to
little effect. Radiation still remains a major problem even in the present.
Here, you can  nd Bay Walkers along the coasts to the north, taking hold of old
strongholds with stone walls, whereas the Full Dead largely populate the dead
cities to the south.
Eastern Europe
    Howling winds scour what was once Eastern Europe, bringing with it the
radiation that af icts most of the rest of the region. A nuclear winter has
caused plants and animals to die, casting the sun in a red hue. The bitter cold
of the turn of seasons has become colder still as ice blasts over tundra and
plains. Very little survives in these areas—and even the undead have trouble
existing when their limbs stiffen and keep them from moving. And yet, while
major cities in this region fell quickly during the rise of the Infection, more
remote settlements were able to eke out a living. Groups of Rovers still roam
the area, herding livestock from place to place as they eke out a meager living
amidst the harsh environmental conditions.
Western Europe
    Like the British Isles, Western Europe fell quickly and hard during the
initial outbreak. The screams of men and women rang out across cities as the
dead rose with the insatiable hunger for living  esh. Because of
the dense populations in this region, very few survived the
initial outbreak, and those that did were forever scarred.
Retrogrades and Full Dead reign within the dead and broken
cities, which are mostly populated by the ever restless zed.
Southern Europe
    As the bombs crashed down in Eastern and Western
Europe, so too did they fall in Southern Europe. The
Infection ran rampant through densely populated areas.
And while some cities attempted to close their walls
against the plague, they too eventually succumbed.
Yet Southern Europe had an advantage that the rest
of Europe did not—the sea. Many men and women  ed
to open water, and a large community of Salt Wise
now populates the waters of the Mediterranean
Sea. Men and women make homes in the hollowed out
remains of buildings on nearby islands.
360

 Greenland
North Greenland & Disko Bay
    One of the last strongholds of actual humanity, the territory of North
Greenland and the Disko Bay is the home of a series of massive bio-domes
surrounded by outer wall perimeters.  Constructed during the time of the fall
of man by the cultural precursors of the Genjian, these functional bio-domes
use thermal dynamic heating and power supply provided by hot springs,  lter
their own air using terraforming plants, and  lter their own water into a nearly
completely enclosed world.  To ensure that the needs of the culture do not
outweigh the ability of these massive domes to provide, population control and
culling ages have been rigorously pursued.  Beyond the safety of the protective
dome, the spread of the Grave Mind has been slowed in Greenland due to the harsh
climate of the region.  There is fear, within the human community, that with
the warming change of the region that the Grave Mind will spread to these far
reaches as well.  The New Hope project, a cryogenic freeze program instituted
during the time of the fall, has already begun to fail as warped creatures
emerge from suspended animation.  The Semper Morte were never meant to be as
they have become.
West Greenland
    The territory of West Greenland is primarily populated by two cultures of
people, the Natural Ones and the Semper Mort.  The Natural Ones came to what
was West Greenland as a combination of whaling and hunting communities.  These
hearty people created settlements and folklore that spread all along the Western
Greenland coast.  It is said, in the local traditions, that within the past
decade the tribes went against the teachings of their elders and began to spread
inland.  In doing so, the Natural One tribes found remains of an ancient and
incredibly advanced civilization.  Fields of thousands of rows of metal and
glass tubes, each in turn wired together by technological nightmares.  Looking
to use the metal Scrap and give burials to the bodies frozen in the glass,
small camps began setting up in the region of ‘First Hope’.  The Natural Ones
understood the wisdom of their elders once the Semper Mort began to rise from
their glass tombs.   Clawed creatures with maws of jagged teeth, the Semper Mort
were seen as ancient demons awakened by the sins of the Natural Ones.  While the
Natural Ones  ed, the awakened Semper Mort began the process of awakening their
fellow tube-mates, and  nding ‘provisions’ for their continued existence.
East Greenland
    Much of the shores of what was once the territory of East Greenland has been
melted into the sea.  Here, of all of the continents, the visual results of the
world’s increased temperature and irradiated environment can be seen.  Along the
territory that was once the Eastern portion of the continent of Greenland, small
communities of Natural Ones have begun to rebuild life.  Embracing the lives
that existed before the fall, the tribes of the region have complex rituals that
involve the spirit of the past.  Youth, looking to become adults, would embrace
the cold shores and stand near the waterways of their home.  Here the youth
would cut small wounds into their body, a cultural tradition known as bleeding,
with the intent of drawing in the massive sharks in the area.  The tribes of
the region kill the lurching beast, using massive nets and spears to capture
the creature, before the shark is able to harm the youth.  If the youth does
not wince away from the dangerous beast during their time of bleed, they are
considered an adult in their community.

361
 South Greenland
    A community of sailors,  shmongers, and farmers the territory of South
Greenland has remained as a Natural One’s untouched dreamscape for many
generations.  While the culture of the area spoke of legends of the talking
dead and  sh people, it is only recently that these rumors have been made
truthful.  Off of the shore of South Greenland a pod of Salt Wise have taken
up residence.  The massive community ships of the Salt Wise dwarfed even the
largest  shing vessel of the local tribes, while the metal blades of the sea
faring folk were far superior to the local crafted weapons.  Fortunately
the Salt Wise, accompanied by a number of Full Dead, were looking to set up
relations and an off shore colony instead of waging war with the indigenous
people.  The communities of the Salt Wise seem happy enough to provide resources
to the locals while operating what the Natural Ones are to understand are some
sort of off shore metal islands that bleed black.  So with only some simple
communication, the old world Oil Platforms of the pre-fall were tapped by the
Salt Wise in exchange for gifts of resources and survival techniques.  Filled
with stories of faraway lands  lled with riches ready to be taken, the Natural
Ones of what was once South Greenland have begun sailing outward to small
islands and neighboring territories.
North American Continent Canada
Atlantic Region
    The eastern most region of the territory formerly known as Canada has been
primarily reclaimed by a resurgence of nature.  Thick pine forests have thrived
where pre-fall roads have been long since decimated and erased from memory.
Nestled in the thick forests are communities based on small mining towns,
 shing villages, and settlements that thrive on lumber and forestry.  These
small towns, networked via hidden roads and water borne shipping routes, shift
in threats that vary as you travel further and further north.  In the southern
regions of what was once the Atlantic Region of Canada the thick forests are
inundated with millions of shambling dead.  While this does not pose a threat
most of the time, when traveling off the thin ‘roadways’ one’s line of sight is
often obscured by dense pine trees- making close calls all that much closer.
In addition to the nestled undead, the woods are hunted by a number of massive
creatures such as omega wolves and the surly and massive irradiated moose.  As
you travel north in the former Atlantic Canadian Region, there are less and less
numbers of the undead, but much greater threat from the individual creature.
Stalking undead, massive moving mountains, and even Frost-Biters can be found
with some regularity. Beyond the threats of the undead, as you travel north you
begin to  nd evidence of the horri c Ice Spiders and other terrible mutants that
reside in the cold territories of the Atlantic Region.
362

 Quebec Region
    The second largest holdout of the Reclaimer people, the territory that was
once the Quebec Region of Canada stands as a shining example of a uni ed people.
The territory that was the Quebec Region has organized into a series of highly
defended port cities as well as a number of mainland outposts, which serve to
manage one of the  nest resources that the territory has to offer- untainted
water.  Distillers and Pure Blood merchants desperate for a taste or pure water
will send runners high and low through the pine  lled forests of the Quebec
Region looking to  nd a single unclaimed natural spring or crystal clear lake.
In the wilds of the territories outside of the Reclaimer bastions, a number of
Natural One and Pure Blood families have grown small towns and settlements.
These family settlements and small towns, living in perfect harmony with the
Natural Ones and surrounding wilds, share a language unknown to many outsiders.
A language that evolved from Quebecois French, what is known as the Bordages
Tongue or La Bell’Fransez is commonly spoken throughout the territory.  The
territory minds its southern borders with a violent voracity, after a few
instances of northern born Yorkers looking for resources, as well as Natural
Ones landing from foreign shores via longboats to raid.
Ontario Region
    What was once the Ontario region of Canada contains some of the highest
population density of the entire former Canadian territory.  With Reclaimers
building foot-holds in areas such as the Reach, the Spire, and throughout
the remains of the once bountiful city of Toronto, the former Ontario region
is active with life.  While constantly engaged in cold warfare with the Iron
Works, pushing back northern bound Merican mobs, and actively seeking out to
remove slaver tribes, the Ontario Region has done remarkably well in resisting
the dangers of the outside world.  While small Raider tribes cause little more
than a nuisance to the strong survivors of the region, the territories like the
Spire have actively begun search and destroy tactics to eradicate the Raider
population.  Here, in the former Ontario region, uranium mines continue to
operate from days before the fall and thick veins of bloodstones are harvested
from the earth.
Prairie Region
    If you want to  nd people, then the Prairie region is certainly not the
place to go. This area was spared the worst of the Infection during the initial
spread- mostly due to its lack of population. Isolated by acres of farmland, the
people that lived in this area evolved slowly, generations eventually turning
into the Reclaimers that characterize the northern reaches of the continent.
Here, you can now  nd small farms that are guarded by Reclaimer families who
tend acres and acres of crops. Small settlements can be found in between these
farms, acting as trade posts so that the farmers can gather necessary supplies.
Further north, you can  nd the sparse boreal forest, a region the plays home to
tribes of Raiders and more dangerous threats.

363
 Western Region
    While most major cities fell in the north, some settlements clung on. In
the west, you can still  nd larger settlements along the coast, an area which
experiences fewer environmental extremes and less of the biting cold that clings
to other regions. Hordes of undead shamble from fallen cities, and are summarily
dealt with by the people still in this area. Yet while the west may have better
weather, it also has fewer resources. This region mainly relies on the outlying
farms to supply food, and does not have much in terms of its own natural
resources aside from timber. Because of this, the Reclaimers from this area are
slightly more open to outsiders; they will occasionally trade with the Mericans
from the south- as long as they abide by strict rules.
United States
New England
    The waters rose in New England as buildings and monuments sunk beneath the
waves. The Infection spread quickly in crowded New England, millions of people
falling to the disease. Yet as these men and women succumbed to illness, their
shambling corpses rose up again. New England became the home of the shambler,
the zombie that travels in hordes across the wastes. But as the waters rose,
salt marshes and docks began to stretch across the remains of major cities,
creating the perfect breeding ground for sly hunters. Feuding Yorkers and Bay
Walkers remain in their respective regions, ruled over by wealthy Pure Bloods
who live within the remains of high rise buildings. A few outlying farms lie
outside of these major cities where small communities eke out a living in the
irradiated soils.
Central Atlantic
    As the waters rose in the south, many men and women journeyed north,
seeking dry land within the foothills and slightly higher country of the central
Atlantic. There, they created farms homes, most of them taking to the woods or
becoming part of a more rural lifestyle. You can mostly  nd Mericans in this
region, along with a few tribes of Natural Ones. This area has avoided most of
the radiation found in the Midwest and the south, though it harbors its own
horrors. Zed are a constant threat, and the Raiders that live in the hilly
regions in this area are some of the worst to be found.
364

 Lower Atlantic
    As the waters rose along the Gulf Coast, so too did they rise in the Lower
Atlantic region. Settlements moved inland as swamps and marshes encroached on
what was once dry ground. Farms sprung up across the area, dealing in both crops
and  esh. In the swamps, settlements of Full Dead secreted themselves away as
tribes of Natural Ones  ourished. Mericans spread outward to farms and away from
the coast as Salt Wise appeared in the local waters. Raiders began appearing in
large numbers, becoming a major threat to settlements in the area. Brews and
hooch became a major export of the region, fueling the trade around the Gulf
Coast.
Midwest
    Radiation spreads out across the Midwest, rolling across  at plains that
were scorched by the hail of bombs that fell from the sky. The cracked remnants
of roads provide trade routes for Rovers and Diesel Jocks, as Natural Ones
remain clustered in groups across the prairie. Settlements of Mericans sprung
up in towns, using the hollowed-out remains of what were once thriving cities.
Massive summer storms roll across the wide expanse, creating environmental
conditions that are some of the harshest to be found in any locale. Irradiated
beasts stalk grasslands, spawned from a combination of the Infection and the
radiation. With the openness of the area, zed can grow to be monstrosities-
better to be avoided. And while New England may be known for its shamblers, the
Midwest is known for its hordes. Hundreds of zed can group together and shamble
across the countryside, unimpeded by natural obstacles.
Gulf Coast
    When the world fell, the waters rose. The Gulf Coast as we know it today
slowly sunk beneath the waves, swamps and coastline replacing what were once
bustling cities. Known as the Rum Coast, this region is renowned for its
bustling slave trade. Salt Wise sail the waters while Bay Walkers manage local
docks. Communities of Semper Mort and Full Dead buy living  esh to satiate their
need for blood. Here, you can  nd teams of diving scavengers, and monstrous
sea creatures, warped by the infection. Water-logged sleepers rest beneath the
waves as River Hunters rule the waters. Raiders haunt the swamps, ready to kill
anyone who encroaches on their territory. Settlements are spread across islands
and  oating docks, with a few inland towns that focus on farming and brewing
businesses.
Rocky Mountains
    The Rocky Mountains are no place for the faint of heart. Here, you can  nd
steep cliffs and forests and gorges. Acting as a natural barrier that separates
the West Coast from the rest of the country, the Rocky Mountains host Mericans
and Natural Ones. These men and women eke out a living amidst the high mountain
elevations. Because of the terrain, shambling zed aren’t as much of an issue as
Raiders and larger threats. Hunters lurk within the forests, and the calls of
strange creations can be heard reverberating through the trees.
West Coast
    Largely isolated by vast deserts, the West Coast was spared some of the
horrors that af icted the east. Yet while it avoided the very worst of the zed,
other terrors awaited the people that managed to survive- themselves. This
region is characterized by irradiated deserts and plains, a  at landscape that
can harbor some of the largest zed. Along the crumbling coasts, you can  nd
large settlements of people- places where civilization hasn’t completely broken
down. Slavery has become the norm in these areas, and men and women on top live
lives of vice.

365
 Paci c Island
When the world fell, the Infection took longer than usual to reach island- bound nations. And yet eventually it did travel over water and wave, settling in the islands of the Paci c. Largely isolated from the horrors of radiation on the mainland, the people of the Paci c were slower to adapt to the Infection. Here,
you can  nd small communities of Genjian, Natural Ones, and Salt Wise who live their lives along the coasts, plying the waters for  sh. Yet while the islands were mostly safe from radiation, the creatures of the deep were not. Many have mutated and have created a host of animals that are as deadly as they are strange.
Mexico
Paci c
    As the Infection spread across the world, Mexico fell quickly and hard—
perhaps a blessing considering the horrors that awaited other areas that clung
on. Men and women  ed packed cities into the wilderness. When it was all over,
though, the desolate remains were all that were left. Along the Paci c, you can
 nd the Pridelands. Mostly made up of desert and plagued by the constant heat,
this region is known for hosting Diesel Jocks, Solestros and Mericans.
North
    There is little in the way of civilization in the northern reaches of
Mexico. There are, however, Natural Ones. Tribes of these people wander the
wastes, plagued by raiders and radiation. Diesel Jocks roam the open roads,
outdistancing the massive hordes of zed that walk across the wastes, grouping
together by the hundreds.
Lowlands
    The world fell and the land sank. Cities slowly disappeared as the waters
around them rose. Men and women tried desperately to stave off the  oodwaters,
building up structures and docks in order to keep the tide at bay. In the end,
though, the cities succumbed. These days, gangs rule the sunken cities, which
are composed of docks and rafts. High walls surround them to keep out the worst
of the restless dead.
Central
    While most of the now-named Pridelands consist of barren wasteland, there
is one boon to the region: the Oil Fields. Here, Merican overseers watch slaves
work night and day, pulling black gold from the ground to power the engines
of Diesel Jock rides. Every so often, the Pure Blood owners of these pieces
of machinery visit to make sure operations run smoothly. While the area is
pro table, though, it’s also incredibly dangerous. Massive zed hordes are drawn
by the noise, and need to be culled by guards. Otherwise, it’s likely that
these massive walls of bodies would overturn the machinery and halt operations
completely.
Southeast
    Most of Mexico is now dominated by deserts and stagnant water- and the same
is true of the south. Yet here, there are more dominant structures—vestiges
from the Old World that are used as temples for those who follow the Tribes of
Seasons. Men and women come to worship, honoring the ever-changing seasons.
Along the coast, you can  nd famed ocean waters that are known for their bounty
of  sh- an unusual occurrence in a world where most water has been contaminated
by radiation.
366

 South American Continent
Northern
    Bordering Central America with its  sheries and ancient temples is South
America, the continent of forests and mountains and ridges. The northern reaches
of this country host overgrown mangrove swamps and rainforests where you can
 nd some of the most dangerous creatures imaginable. Here, small settlements of
Natural Ones stick to the coasts and forests, trying to eke out a living in an
area where the undead lie in wait within branches and trees. Salt Wise can be
found nearer to the coasts, living along the warm waters of the Caribbean Sea
and trading with the Natural Ones from further inland. Yet this area is also
exploited by Pure Bloods. The fertile oil  elds in this region are some of the
largest to be found anywhere, and laborers sweat and toil beneath the relentless
overseers that the Pure Bloods hire to oversee this work. These goods, in turn,
are shipped up the Rum Coast toward Lone Star to fuel the machines and rides of
the Diesel Jocks.
Western
    The whistling winds of the Andes mountains are what characterize the Western
side of South America. Here, you can  nd settlements of the Unborn of Teixiptla
high within the ruins of what was once Machu Picchu. Viewing outsiders with
suspicion, these settlements are mostly isolated due to their elevation; even
the undead seem to stick clear, instead preferring the lush rainforests at lower
elevations. These settlements eke out a living through farming steep ridges and
also by venturing to the coast in order to trade with Salt Wise settlements for
 sh and other goods.
Eastern (Brazil)
    As the world fell, the Eastern reaches of South America experienced the
worst of the Infection. More densely population than the rest of the continent,
men and women quickly succumbed to the plague. Bodies piled in the streets as
some  ed to the wilderness, only to die of exposure in the harsh rainforests.
Only the dead survive in this area—the dead and the strange creatures which
now haunt the darkest reaches of the forests, warped by the Infection. Large
populations of Full Dead and the Unborn of Teixiptla can be found in this humid
region; and while nothing living really survives in the area, these Strains
trade with outsiders for slaves to work the mines in the region.
Southern
    While rainforests dominate much of South America, in the south you can  nd
the grasslands that stretch for miles and miles. Here you can  nd settlements
of Mericans herding sheep and cattle—far from what were once cities and towns.
Preferring to be called “Gauchos,” these men and women are all that’s left of
the great cities that once populated the region. This area provides much of the
farmland of South America, and many of the settlements scattered across the
continent trade with the farmers that have set up shop in this region. It’s also
the area where many of the Full Dead  nd their victims to work as slaves or to
use as a food source.

367
 Outer Space
    Rumor has it that before the  nal whimpers of humanity were driven into
near non-existence, a number of processes were tried, in the attempt to force
humanity beyond the infection and into the future.  One example of the projects
that humanity undertook was the First Hope and Second Hope projects, where a
number of humans who had only begun to show signs of the infection were frozen
in a cryogenic state.  Due to time, and lack of upkeep, most of these pods have
either been destroyed, scrapped, or eventually had enough of a seal breach to
allow the infection in.  With the delay and involvement of two separate forms of
the viral fungus, the Semper Mort were born.
    Another attempt that humans made was to launch themselves into the blind
recesses of space.  A number of humans, or limited infection humans, attempted
to survive in a suspended state out among the stars.  A journey calculated
to sling shot around a far reaching planet’s gravitational pull, to then be
returned to earth, the majority of these projects failed.  Those that have crash
landed back to earth, mostly in the oceans, did not survive the environment that
the world has become.  Nothing from space ever survives here.  The impact of a
land fall destroys technology, people, and most usable resources.
    But planned projected ships are not the only objects that fall to earth.
While most objects burn up in the atmosphere, the occasional remains of a part
of a satellite do crash land on earth.  More times than not these rocketing
chunks of crazy future metal are nothing more than twisted Scrap, but on the
rarest of occasion information can be gleaned from the people of the past.
368

 Introduction to Secret Societies
There are rumors within cities, within settlements, within towns— rumors of secret meetings and organized groups. There are whispers of men and women who gather together in order to accomplish goals that are known only to them. Wherever there are people with dreams and aspirations and greed, there are societies that choose only the worthy enter their ranks.
    Secret societies (and not-so-secret societies) are an integral part of
what is left of civilization in the post-apocalyptic world. These societies are
organized groups that have their own agendas and goals. For example, the Lineage
League keeps track of Pure Blood bloodlines, and only allows the most pedigreed
and elite Pure Bloods within their circle. Because of the secrecy, or elitism,
of these groups, many characters may never encounter them within game.
    These groups are present at all games— though you may not necessarily hear
about them. Some are game-speci c, while others are regional or even nationwide.
Larger, nationwide societies have branches at each settlement, and one branch,
while bowing to the demands of the overall society, may have its own unique
goals. For example, Murder Inc. has reach that extends throughout most of the
known world; yet regions are controlled by different branches, and even smaller
groups exist within individual settlements. These groups operate in different
ways and have different goals, depending on the needs of the settlement. In
addition, information between different branches travels slowly; after all, the
only way to pass along news is through letter or word of mouth.
    These societies don’t accept just anyone, and the only way to join a society
is through roleplay. In other words, you can’t start out as a member when you
 rst enter game.  Instead, your character must attract a society’s notice
through their actions— and then the society must be recruiting. It’s also worth
noting that some societies look unfavorably on those who ask to join; after all,
some people can be suspicious as to how a person  nds out about their society in
the  rst place.
    Secret societies don’t necessarily give additional bene ts to members— aside
from connections. If you’re expecting to receive items for free, expect to be
disappointed. Secret societies often simply offer status and prestige rather
than physical objects. The point of joining a society is often due to shared
goals, and working toward the same agenda.
    Joining a society isn’t necessarily easy, either. Some groups place
potential members through a series of rigorous tests before they’re allowed
to fully join. These can include tasks that range from proving their loyalty
to simply agreeing to a set contract. Those who pass these tests, though, can
expect to be welcomed into the fold.
    When you’re accepted into a society, the character that writes the society
membership on your character sheet becomes your sponsor. This sponsor is often
responsible for your actions, and acts as a mentor for your character. While
some mentors like to take a laid back approach, others may intercede on your
behalf, and train you when it comes to the society’s rules.
    Note that there’s a reason why society membership costs no Experience Points
to take; it’s primarily a roleplay-based Skill with no mechanical bene ts.

369
 Commonly Found Secret Societies
    While some societies remain elusive, there are others that are commonly
found within the world. These societies aren’t always recruiting new members,
but they may be encountered within the world.
The Aggies
    The Aggies are an organization best known for their scienti c experiments
in Aggieland, far to the south in Lone Star. While these Darwinists are often
demonized for the experiments that have gone awry, there are some within the
Aggies who truly believe in furthering the different strains of mankind.
Black Market
    Wherever there is trade, there’s the Black Market. Very little is
known about this organization— only whispers and rumors. This is a secret
organization, and unless you’ve heard about the Black Market in-game, your
character most likely hasn’t heard of it. For those that have heard rumors,
though, the Black Market thought to have access to some very valuable items
indeed; where those items are gotten from, though, is another question entirely.
The Black Market provides means to fence stolen goods, but items that are not
available any other way, and network with shadier sides of commerce.  Black
Market must be purchased with experience points via “Black Market Connections.”
Inner Circle
    Within the very heart of Black Market lies a
hidden organization, known only to the most elite.
These thieving masterminds are the best of the
best of this group, and oversee the operations
and activities of local cells. Yet earning
a place within the Inner Circle isn’t
easy; it can take years before a person
within Black Market is deemed worthy of
promotion— if ever. For those within
this organization, though, there is much
power to be gained. Inner Circle can only
be gained after Black Market is achieved,
which is purchased with the skill “Black
Market Connections.”
The Lineage League
    This organization is known as the height
of Pure Blood society. It tracks the esteemed
lineages of Pure Bloods, and only the most
distinguished bloodlines make it into the
League. Being recognized and accepted by the
Lineage League is an honor for any Pure Blood—
and those who are shunned by the League soon
 nd themselves shunned by other Pure Bloods,
as well.
370

 The Postal Service
    This organization is an elite group primarily overseen by the religious
Sainthood of Ashes, bent on spreading the written word and communication across
what is left of civilization. The men and women who are part of the Postal
Service travel the wastes alone, delivering mail to different settlements.
Postwalkers are revered within the Sainthood, and are almost always treated with
courtesy and respect within the settlements they visit. After all, anyone who
can survive the wastes alone is probably not someone you should mess with.
Murder Inc.
    Very little is known about this shady organization— merely whispers and
rumors. And unless your character has directly encountered Murder Inc., they
have very little idea it exists outside of rumors and the ranting of madmen.
It’s said that men and women who are professional killers may be found within
their ranks. How this organization operates, though, is only known to the
members themselves.  Murder Inc. provides tools of the trade, offers its members
the ability to perform hits for rewards, and must be purchased via Guild
Membership instead of via the Secret society Skill.
Upper Management
    There are those who make the hard decisions so that others don’t have to—
those who act as surgeons and weed out the cancerous growths of society.  Upper
Management is a network of highly trained killers within Murder Inc. These
individuals, chosen from the ranks of Murder Inc. after years of service, track
dangerous people that need to be removed quickly, quietly and ef ciently. These
men and women also look for rival assassin organizations that need to be put
down, and work as scientists and builders to advance the technologies of the
association as a whole. Upper Management can only be gained after Murder Inc. is
achieved, which is purchased with the skill “Guild Membership.”
Servants of the Undying
    There is power within the Grave Mind— power and everlasting life. This
organization spans a number of faiths that use the Grave Mind as an ideological
focus, and believes that the Grave Mind itself holds the key to immortality. The
Servants of the Undying seek to harness the Grave Mind for their own purposes—
mainly by manipulating the Grave Mind so that they can emerge from death time
and time again, essentially achieving a type of everlasting life. This group is
known to mostly consist of Full Dead, Semper Mort and the Unborn of Teixiptla.
Trade Union
    There are organizations that work for the good of the people, and then there
are groups that aim to make a pro t. The Trade Union has a reach that extends
across towns and settlements throughout the wastelands. Based on commerce,
this organization is a network of trade route and caravan overseers that are
connected across a number of settlements. Men and women within this organization
work on facilitating trade relations, and will even fund road projects if it’s
in their best interests (and if it will eventually turn a pro t). Rumored to be
based out of the remains of DC, individual trade union representatives are known
as Senators.

371
 Dead Sight Society
    Psions are a blight on the land. They are monstrous abominations that should
be eradicated at any and all costs; at least, that’s what the Dead Sight Society
would have you believe.  This organization transcends strains and faiths with
only one goal: the complete and utter destruction of any and all psions. The
members of this organization are highly trained to work within settlements to
stop the spread of psionic in uence, and recruit those who are strong willed
and who often have a personal vendetta against psions.  This group believes
that since psions are the eyes and shared awareness of the Grave Mind, they can
remove the Grave Mind’s in uence from the world by removing psions themselves.
Underground Railroad
    Slavery may be accepted by most settlements and people— but not all
are satis ed with the status quo. The Underground Railroad is a network of
individuals, safe houses, and freedom  ghters that actively work to remove the
injustice of slavery.  It’s rumored that these men and women communicate through
a series of secret signals and signs, moving slaves from pro-slave settlements
and breeding towns to safe locations. The men and women who are part of the
Underground Railroad often create sanctuaries for slaves where they can be
rehabilitated before being set free.
Crafters of Alexandria
    The world is a dangerous place,
and knowledge can often be lost.
That’s why the Crafters of
Alexandria exist: to preserve
technological resources
and advancements in
case the worst were to
occur. This group is
a wide network of
crafters, engineers
and tinkers who
gather all of
their collective
works and share them across an
intricate network. Although
their aim is mainly to preserve
the advancements of the modern
world, they also work to make
advancements themselves. Only
the most skilled and trustworthy
craftsmen are accepted into
their ranks, and being known as
a Crafter of Alexandria is both
an honor and a privilege.
372

 Slang and Strainist Terminology
The world became a much larger place when it fell. Communication between areas became less frequent as roads disappeared beneath trees and scrub. Men and women huddled in small settlements, slowly turning into the various strains seen in Dystopia Rising. It’s not all that surprising that terms, slang, and insults emerged in these different regions, becoming part of the world’s language.
    Part of the reason why have included this section in the book is to provide
a unique culture to the in-character language of the people in the world of
Dystopia Rising.  The other reason we are providing this section is to provide
a language that is not based on real world racism or hurtful words.  We all
have to remember that behind every character is a friend who is playing the
character, and that while we may be vile to one another as a character is to
another, we do not want to hurt the person ‘behind’ the character.
Beacon Hill Region/Bay Walkers
Masshole
    A term commonly used to insult someone from the Mass, usually a Bay Walker.
This term is most often used by Yorkers.
Puddle Jumper
    A term commonly used to insult Bay Walkers due to their tendency to live
near water.
Swamp Mouth
    A term commonly used to insult Bay Walkers due to their tendency to live
near water. This term is most often used in the southern regions of the world,
including the Rum Coast.
Swamp Rat
    A term commonly used to insult Bay Walkers due to their usually pointed
features, which can appear rodent-like.
Water Rat
    A term commonly used to insult Bay Walkers due to their usually pointed
features, which can appear rodent-like. This term is most often used in the
northern regions of the world, including Old York, the Mass and the Iron Works.
Old York Region/Yorkers
Borough Hopper
    A term commonly used to insult Yorkers, implying that the Yorker won’t stay
loyal to one gang.

373
 Lead Head
    A term commonly used to insult Yorkers, implying stupidity due to taking
head shots.
Rust Monkey
    A term commonly used to insult Yorkers due to their tendency to live in the
rusting, metal remains of high rise buildings.
Rivet Dick/Rust Trap
    A term commonly used to insult Yorkers by comparing their genitalia with
features commonly found in Old York.
Bullet Bag
    A term commonly used to insult Yorkers by implying that a Yorker is only as
useful as a sandbag that is intended to stop bullets.
Semper Mort
Flea Fucker
    A term commonly used to insult Semper Mort due to their blood-sucking
nature. This term is also used to insult someone dating a Semper Mort.
Leech
A term commonly used to insult Semper Mort due to their blood-sucking nature.
Ghoulie
    A term commonly used to insult Semper Mort due to their strange and awkward
appearance.
Nibbler
    A term commonly used to demean a Semper Mort by making light of their
consumption needs.
Pickle
A derogatory term used to insult Semper Mort based on the idea that they come from people who have been suspended in a jarred liquid state  like pickles.
Iron Slaves
Clink
    A very insulting term used to slur Iron Slaves due to the likelihood of them
being in chains.
Glow Bug
A term commonly used to patronize Iron Slaves due to their ability to glow.
For example: “Awww, poor little glow bug. Your life must be so hard.” This term can also be used as a term of endearment, though only if the Iron Slave is known well.
374

 Lamp
    A term commonly used to insult Iron Slaves due to their ability to glow and
their assignment as being ‘less than’ a person.
Night Light
    A term commonly used to patronize Iron Slaves due to their ability to glow.
Glow Mules
    A derogatory term that refers to Iron Slaves as a means to haul heavy
weights, pull caravans, and be treated sub-humanely as animals or objects.
Retrogrades
Double Bagger
    A term commonly used to insult exceptionally ugly
Retrogrades. It refers to needing two bags in
order to have sex with the Retrograde- one for the
Retrograde’s face, and then one for your own in
case the Retrograde’s bag falls off.
Flakey
A term commonly used to insult Retrogrades, due to the tendency for their skin to peel and  ake off.
Rot Face/Rottie
    A term commonly used to insult Retrogrades,
due to their rotting skin.
Nann/Nanner
    A term commonly used to insult a Retrograde
based on the idea that their skin is coming off
like the peel of a banana.
SATE
    An acronym for a Sin Against The Eyes.
Full Dead
Zed Head
    A term commonly used to insult Retrogrades or Full Dead, referring to their
corpse-like appearance.
Stiffy
    A term commonly used to insult Full Dead referring to their corpse-like
appearance while having a double meaning to imply male genitalia.
D.C. (Dee Cee)
    Short for a Dapper Cadaver.  Spawned from a need to differentiate different
types of Strains that appear corpse or zombie like.

375
 Rigger
Spawned from a nasty rumor that Full Dead suffer from rigor mortis when they sit in one place for too long. Believed to be related to the periods of time where a Full Dead is distracted, and just sitting in place for prolonged periods.
Rottingham
    Originating from the Telling Visions, the insult of pointing out the
contradiction of both being undead as well as somehow maintaining some form of
dignity and superiority.
Lascarians
Roach
    A term commonly used to insult Lascarians due to their tendency to scatter
when the lights are turned on.
G-Dis (Gee-Dus)
    A term commonly used to describe a Lascarian that is kept around just to
dispose of bodies.  Likened to a garbage disposal.
Blinky
    A term commonly used to describe a Lascarian that originated from the cruel
Merican practice of shining bright lights into Lascarian eyes when they come up
at night.
F-Bug
    A term commonly to describe the swarming and insect-like tendencies of
Lascarians in groups.
Scav
    A derogatory term used to insult a Lascarian due to their scavenger-like
tendencies when it comes to eating dead bodies.
Pure Blood
Mud Blood
    A term commonly used to insult Pure Bloods, referring to the likelihood that
their heritage might not be exactly as pure as they claim.
Piggy Bank
    A term commonly used to insult Pure Bloods which refers to the  nancial
wellbeing of the Pure Blood being their only means of worth.  Used in context:
‘I cracked open a couple of Piggy Banks and left them on the side of the road.’
Shutter
     A double insult referring to the fact that Pure Bloods lived in a secluded
world, and, suggesting that a Pure Blood would lock you out to face danger for
their own safety.
376

 Swooners
An insult used to suggest that Pure Bloods may faint at the slightest reason.
Gloss Boss
A derogatory term for a makeup wearing Pure Blood that oversees a labor group.
Salt Wise
Fish Face
    A term commonly used to insult Salt Wise due to their aquatic nature.
Fish Fucker
    A term commonly used to insult Salt Wise due to their aquatic nature.
Drip
    A term commonly used to insult Salt Wise that just came into land,
suggesting that they leave drips of water wherever they go.
Froggies
    A term commonly used to insult Salt Wise due to their adaption to both land
and sea.
Throater
    A term meant to be extremely derogatory, suggesting that Salt Wise copulate
with one another in their gill slits when they want to prevent pregnancy.
Genjian
Canners
A derogatory term used to describe Genjian, commonly referring to their armor as being a can that you would store food in. Used in context, “Saw a bunch of hunters rip open a squad of Canners, it was like watching a chicken eat an egg.”
Sel es
    A shortened version of ‘self-cleaning garbage’, referring to the way that
Genjian commit ritualistic suicide to prevent their corpses from rising back
from the dead.
Remmies
    An insult against the pride that a Genjian holds in their heritage,
suggesting that Genjians are nothing more than elitist remnants.
Posies
    An insult to suggest that a Genjian is posing when they get into a prepared
combat stance.
Failies
    An insult that mocks many Genjian stories of how they intended to save the
world, but didn’t.

377
 Mericans
Yokel
    A term commonly used to insult Mericans due to
their tactlessness making them appear to be less than
intelligent.  Since only a small portion of Mericans
come from very rural areas, some Mericans have caught
on that this is a form of insult.
Merican’t
    A play on words to suggest that
Mericans are often inept and incapable of
actually succeeding at anything.
Gummy
    An insult referring to the fact that
Mericans continuously talk.  The term
‘ apping their gums’ was shortened to
‘Gum Flaps’ and then later to ‘Gummy’.
Welcs
    An insult against Mericans,
suggesting that they die so quickly
that you can’t even  nish saying
‘welcome’ to them.
Saddlebagger
    An insult that suggests that a Merican carries their life in a saddle-bag so
that they can move easily when they are kicked out of another town.
Nation of Accensor
Freaks of Faith (FoFers)
    A derogatory term used to insult Accensors by referring to the mutations
that they accumulate as they age.
Kneelers
    An insult that implies that Accensors are always on their knees. While in
reality that’s usually to pray, this term implies otherwise.
Sheeple
    An insult that implies that Accensors will blindly follow their faith like
sheep, no matter what. It also suggests a lack of intelligence among Accensors
for doing do.
Zoned Drones
    This insulting term refers to an Accensors constant mumbling when he prays.
It also refers to an Accensors tendency to “zone out” at times while praying.
378

 Moral Mooks
    An insult that refers to the fact that many Accensors are moral to a fault,
implying an inherent stupidity and closed mindedness.
Vegasian
Snake Eyes
    A derogatory term that refers to Vegasians’ gambling heritage while at the
same time insulting their physical features.
Gutter Glitter
    An insult to imply that Vegasians are a bright and shiny material commonly
thrown away to try and make something prettier, but are often times just found
washed up in the gutters.  Doubles to imply that the garish dress of a Vegasian
is still of lackluster quality and dubious stature no matter how much it is
shined up.
Fake Bloods
    An insult to suggest that Vegasians want to dress like Pure Bloods, but
can’t seem to make it work out.
Comb Clogger
     An insult referring to the large volumes of animal fat and grease used
to ensure Vegasians achieve the high maintenance hair styles they desired.
Implies that a Vegasian is greasy.
Jokers
    An insult referring to the fact that you can never take a Vegasian seriously
because more than likely, they’re lying to you.
Natural Ones
Pinecone Wiper
    A derogatory term to suggest that a Natural One cleans their back side with
the harsh and rigged edges of a pinecone.
Rocky
    A derogatory term to suggest that Natural Ones are stupid enough to keep pet
rocks and name them.
Nub-Nubs
    A derogatory term to suggest that Natural Ones are barbaric enough that they
are incapable of wearing enough clothes to prevent their nipples and genitalia
from being seen.  This term is used on primarily loin cloth wearing Natural Ones
or Natural Ones that shun basic protective clothes.

379
 Toer
    A term commonly used to insult Natural Ones based on the idea of lacking
textile or quality crafted footwear.  This insult confuses most Natural Ones
since their utilitarian clothes often times make much more sense than the
clothes of Vegasians or Pure Bloods.
Knotter
    An insult meant to imply that Natural Ones take care of their sexual needs
by humping knots or branches of trees.
Diesel Jock
Mouther
    Short for Motor Mouth, an insult based on the idea that Diesel Jocks are
incapable of talking about anything other than their rides.
Clanker
    An insult for a Diesel Jock, hinting at the fact that a Diesel Jock’s ride
isn’t really up to par and instead “clanks” when it moves.
Bucket Head
    An insult referring to the protective helmets that Diesel Jocks sometimes
wear while riding their vehicles.
Rashface
    An insult implying that a Diesel Jock is not only ugly, but has fallen off
his ride more than once and has gotten road rash.
BaSeB (Bayseb)
Back Seat Bastard(Bitch). An insult commonly thrown around between Diesel Jocks suggesting that the only way they will see a truly fast vehicle is from the back seat.
Rover
Ragrat
    An insulting term referring to a Rover’s “pack rat” nature due to moving
from place to place while at the same time insulting the scarves they usually
wear.
Scarvies
    An insult that refers to the fact that Rovers tend to wear multiple scarves.
Hitch Bitch
    A derogatory and demeaning insult referring to the part of a caravan that
connects a cart to the work horses.  The hitch is the part that swivels, often
makes the most noise, and is follows right behind the posteriors of the pulling
animals.
380

 Scarf Monkey
An insult used to describe Rovers that travel around the Old York region (See: “Rust Monkey” under Yorkers). It also implies that Rovers are prone to having  eas.
Traf c
    A phrase used to insult large numbers of Rovers, often times traveling
together on the road.  Use:  ‘I ran into a bunch of traf c, damn near ended up
wearing a scarf and married to someone.’
Reclaimer
Sap Sucker
    This insult refers to a Reclaimer’s tendency to live in areas rich with
Maple trees.  Maple trees are commonly known for their sap, and the food
products that can be made from the maple sap.
Reddie
This insulting term refers to a Reclaimer’s red-hued arms and exposed muscles.
Frosty
    This derogatory term refers not only to the fact that a Reclaimer is likely
to be from the north, but also to their silver or blue eyes.
Pineskin
    This insult refers to a Reclaimer’s bark-like, leathery skin along his arms.
Procto
    This insult originates in the pre-fall medical practice of proctology.  At
some point a pre-fall item was found that connected proctologists with putting
on gloves.  While most modern survivors are unaware of what a proctologist is,
the term Procto unfortunately stuck with the Reclaimers.
Unborn of Teixiptla
or “rotten” in appearance, like something that has been eaten up by mildew.
Floater
    An insulting term that suggests that Unborn look like either a waterlogged
corpse or physical waste left in water.
Gurgler
    An insult that refers to the fact that the Unborn look sickly and unwell.
Mosser
    An insult that refers to the Unborn’s greenish appearance.
Dewy
-

An insulting term that refers to the fact that the Unborn can look “moldy”
381
 Coqui
    The name of a type of frog found in the warm jungle regions where the Unborn
are found, it is a common joke that the Unborn are the ones causing the unique
‘Coe-Key’ noises in the jungles that are produced by the Coqui frogs produce.
Solestros
Half Blood
    An insulting term referring to the fact that Solestros are only part Pure
Blood.
Grubbers
    An insult that refers to the fact that Solestros need to actually work and
“grub around in the dirt” to make a living rather than simply live off of their
families’ earnings.
Drudger
    An insult that refers to the fact that Solestros are a bit like slaves to
the Pure Bloods that they work for.
Shaker
    An insult that refers to a Solestros’ dislike for cold temperatures in
addition to the fact that they can be cowardly when faced with physical danger.
Remnant
Leftover
    A derogatory term used to insult Remnants that implies that they are merely
the “leftover” parts from other Strains, and that no one really wants them.
Mutie
    An insulting term that not only refers to a Remnant’s strange mutations, but
also refers to their mixed parentage.
Mule
    An insult that implies a Remnant’s mixed heritage and questions their
ability to be sexually viable or wanted.
Rando
    A derogatory term commonly used to insult Remnants by suggesting their
heritage is a random mix of strains and parenting.
Forgotten
    An insult used to imply that Remnants are both unwanted and forgotten. This
term is usually thrown in as word play when talking to a Remnant. For example:
“Oh, I was supposed to pay you? I’m sorry. I must have forgotten.”
382

 Red Star
Sickle Slave
    A derogatory term that implies that Red Stars are slaves to their commune
without any free will of their own.
Tool
    An insult that refers to a Red Star’s likelihood of simply being used as a
“tool” for the betterment of their commune.
Lemming
    An insult that refers to a Red Star’s likelihood of following his commune
blindly and without question.
Soulless
    An insult commonly used by the spiritually inclined, in particular
Accensorites and Priests, referring to the fact that acts of faith do not work
on Red Star due to the fact that they have no soul.
Popoffs
Originating as an old Nuclear Family tradition of making a game of completely shooting the star out of anything that had a Red Star insignia on it. Nuclear Family members would load up extra ammunition and try to ‘pop off a star’.
Common Slang and Insults
Slack-Jaw
    Term used commonly to refer to the infected dead, or, people acting as
mindlessly as the infected dead. “Look at all dem slack-jaws.  And if you look
past the townfolk, you can even see real slack-jaws sneaking up behind em.”
Nutter
    A person who runs into combat with the hopes that their armor will protect
them despite the fact that their physical body is incapable of taking much
damage.  “I’ve got ten that says that nutter’s armor ends up on a work bench
pissing off a tink-tink.”
Muf e
    An individual who believes that everyone should be treated fairly and
equally regardless of the individual’s capabilities.  Also known as ‘suckers’.
“That muf e wants us to all be nice and get along like some sort of inbred
nuclear family.”
Ankle Biter
A zed that has been dropped, but, no one has remembered to dismember and  nish off. “HEY! Finish your kills. Don’t leave all these Ankle Biters around”
Brainers
    A term referring to Raiders and their rotten, infected, brains.  “Hear that
screaming?  Sounds like some brainers hit the Chandler’s farm.  So, get you
another drink?”

383
 Mechanics and Conflict Resolution
Mechanics Interaction
So now you have a concept for the survivor you want to play, a character sheet, and your costume all together; but what does all of this mean? Truth be told, you have already completed the dif cult portion of the game mechanics in Dystopia Rising. Use of Skills, Mind Points, Health Points, teaching, learning, and  ghting is a simple process. We have made the process simple so that once it comes to
game time at a Dystopia Rising event, you are thinking more about surviving and interacting from your character’s perspective instead of trying to  gure out rules.
The Character Sheet
The  rst mechanic interaction to learn is your character sheet. Your character sheet is not an in-game item –and you should ignore their presence when you see other people consult them– but instead a representation of the Skills and abilities that you have. It should be stored in a manner that protects it from wear and tear during play, but still be readily available for you to access at any point during an event. (Plastic bags or small tins such as those used for some brands of mints are good choices.) A character sheet is printed new for you at the start of each event, and will be collected before you leave. The reason we collect and produce these sheets for you is that as you spend Experience Points in game to learn new things, we will add them to your sheet for the next time you come to an event.
Your character sheet is double-sided, with all of your game information on the front, and sections of time marked out on the back. In-game Skills are listed on the front; it is your responsibility to know what they do, so that if you use them in a situation and someone is unsure of what you are doing, you may explain them quickly and concisely. If you need to look up a Skill, especially one you’ve just learned, rulebooks are available for referencing at Logistics, and rules Marshals may be consulted during play. At the end of a module –a period of intense action– or after character on character interactions, you are expected to note what Skills you used on the back of your character sheet in the correct lined section.
As you use Skills in non-combat situations, you will record the Skill use on the back of your character sheet along with the Mind Point expenditure. In the instance that the Skill is used mid-combat, as soon as the con ict slows you will update your character sheet with the Skills that were used during the con ict.
384

 Any augments that your character receives from another player, from your
gear, from brews, or from food should be recorded on the back of your sheet as well. These notes can be as simple as ‘Faith Healed by Bob’ or ‘Snake Oil’. These notes should be enough that when a Marshal spot checks character sheets, or after the event when character sheets are reviewed, the staff members understand what mechanical resources you used or consumed to increase your health or mind.
You should store your character sheet in a plastic bag, and have the character sheet in a place of easy access. Please understand that other people will be handling your character sheet, so be sure to keep your character sheet stored in a location that doesn’t press up against your skin (not in your corset, your sock, or your underwear folks).
Skill Con ict Resolution
So now that you know your Skills, and how to register their use, it’s time
to  gure out con ict resolution. While sometimes con ict resolution refers to contact safe combat, as a term it actually refers to determining an outcome for any situation of contested intent. In many games you need to roll dice,  ip cards, or some other randomized aspect to determine the capacity of chance. In Dystopia Rising, more often than not we rely on skill instead of random variables.
Using Mind Points
    Many Skills also require an expenditure of Mind Points –a trait your
character has, re ecting their ability to perform various extraordinary feats–
for activation. Mind Points are required to activate many of your accumulated
tricks, techniques, and even supernatural powers. At twelve noon and twelve
midnight, referred to as the Twelves, your character’s available Mind Points
automatically refresh, unless speci c effects prevent it. If a Skill has other
requirements, they will be speci ed in its description.
Additional Requirements: Time
Many Skills require nothing more than a simple Mind Point expenditure; if
you have the Mind Points and you spend them, then you have successfully activated that skill. Some Skills specify a certain amount of time before they take effect
– unless it says otherwise, you should roleplay the process of using that Skill during that time. This time must be continuous; if a Skill requires ten minutes to use, it cannot be done in one or two minute increments. Note that many abilities with Time requirements can be interrupted, and will say so in their description.
Additional Requirements: Resources
Some Skills, crafting in particular, require that you have resources or tools on hand to successfully complete the Skill. If a Skill has other requirements, those must be met at the time of its use; for example, if you have plenty of Mind Points but no raw materials to work with, then crafting Skills such as Brewing or Forging the Future won’t be of much use. Those resources are invested at the beginning of the Skill’s use, and are lost if the Skill is abandoned or otherwise interrupted, and the Mind Points lost.
Additional Requirements: Role Play
    Many uses of Skills require a player to ful ll a series of roleplaying
requirements before they are able to reap the bene ts of a Skill.  Skills such
as Forging the Future, Crop Tending, and Fishing all generate Item Cards after a
period of roleplay appropriate to the Skill being used, tools with appropriate
Physical Representations are possessed (Workbenches, Fishing Poles, Forges,
etc), and an appropriate value of Mind Points has been expended.

385
 Melee vs Ranged effects
Some Skills require a ranged attack or a melee attack to be used successfully. What they are referring to in regards to these terms is our contact safe combat system. If the attack misses, or if it is negated by a defensive skill, the Skill does not take effect. (Some Skills may exceptions to this rule, which will be detailed in their description.) A melee attack means a strike with a contact safe melee weapon – it cannot be delivered with any prop, hard shell weapon, your bare hands or any other part of your body. (In-game ‘bare hand’ attacks are represented by special brawling boffer weapons, covered under the contact safety rules.) Ranged attacks mean a successful attack made with a soft cloth packet, boffer thrown weapon, or an approved contact safe foam dart.
Defenses
At times, especially if you are targeting a person, someone else can use a Skill that negates yours. If someone wishes to do so, they have 5 seconds after your Skill use to do so. For example, if you strike a target from the front and use Mangle Limb, they could possibly call a defensive Skill such as Parry, which would negate your Mangle Limb. A Skill can only negate those Skills or types of Skills speci cally listed in its description– even if you think it makes sense that you should be able to Avoid a use of Break Weapon, since Avoid does not list it as a type of Skill it can prevent, it cannot be used to negate that Skill.
Automatic Hits
Some Skills and abilities automatically hit their target without needing to engage in a contact safe combat attack. These abilities must be announced loudly and clearly, with the user gesturing to the target of the attack to indicate
the automatic hit target. For example, when calling out a use of the Sniped Shot Skill, the Sniper would need to declare “Sniped Shot” followed by the Target,
and then any damage or effects being delivered. The target would then have the opportunity to utilize defensive Skills as normal. Note that if the target cannot hear the attack call, they cannot take the attack call, so be loud and clear!
Speci c Targets
    Many combat Skills require that you land the attack on a speci c target for
it to take effect. For example, “Destroy Shield” will only work if it strikes a
shield. With both Melee and Ranged attacks, if the Skill speci es that a speci c
target must be struck, and the attack fails to hit the intended target, the Mind
Points are lost, and the ability has no effect.
386

 Headbands and Hand Gestures
There are a number of gestures that augment or change the mechanical progression of the game. Headbands and particular arm gestures will change how you interact with your environment, and even what your character is capable of seeing. Be sure to have a set of headbands with you at game, and read over the list of gestures and what they mean.
Bright Orange Headband
    Non-combatant character, cannot swing contact safe weapons nor be hit by
contact safe weapons.
Bright Green Headband
    Not in character. This color is only used when leaving game, when traveling
to or from NPC shifts, in the instance that your character has died and you are
on your way to logistics, or in the instance of emergency.
Forearm in Front of Face (as if hanging an opera cape)
    Unseen due to stealth.
Forearm in Front of Face, Other Arm Pointed at the Sky
    Unseen due to high  ight.
Forearm in Front of Face, Other Arm Pointed at the Ground
    Unseen due to burrowing
Hand out, palm open, and directed towards a target
Approachability skill in use. This is combined with the declaration of the Skill, in the instance you see the gesture without knowing what skill was used simply ask clarify.
Fist in the Air
    Using an effect that has a radius effect.  This is combined with the
declaration of the Skill or effect, in the instance you see the gesture without
knowing what Skill was used simply ask Clarify.
Both Palms Open With Both Hands Over Head
    Call halt to action due to safety reasons.  This is combined with people
calling ‘HOLD’.  This should only be used in instances where a danger, injury,
or threat has been con rmed.
Palm Open Facing Outward on Top of Head
    Signi es quick out-of-character clari cation or comment.  Please Clarify
without stopping the  ow of action.  Often used in conjunction with say
‘Clarify: (situation or skill name).

387
 Combat Privileges
    Dystopia Rising allows for safe and controlled melee and ranged combat
between combatants to determine successful strikes and unsuccessful strikes.
First, players should understand that contact safe combat is a privilege, and
not a right. Those who endanger others with unsafe actions will receive the
following:
• First offense results in a warning and a notation added to your sheet
• Second offense results in two months suspension from active combat
• Third offense results in having all contact combat privileges revoked permanently
    Staff Members may choose to move directly to a greater punishment level if
they believe the offending action requires such. Reprimands are not limited to
these punishments, and may result in actions up to and including banning a guest
from future events.
Combat Safe Melee Weapons
    During Check In, each guest must present their melee weapons, packets,
and armor for staff review. This must be done at each event, even if an item
has passed inspection before, in order to ensure that a previously acceptable
item has not become unsafe due to routine wear, weather deterioration, etc.
These items will be inspected to ensure that they are in accordance with our
safety standards and guidelines. This review will determine if equipment can
be used during a Dystopia Rising event. If an item is not approved, that item
must be removed from the game site; being returned to that person’s vehicle is
acceptable. Please read our prop creation guidelines to ensure that the product
you are bringing is acceptable. When in doubt, contact game staff with questions
in advance, in order to avoid surprises during Check In. See the Logistics
section under Equipment Tags for more details.
Physical Representations of Firearms
    Dystopia Rising allows Physical Representations for  rearms. These Physical
Representations must have a bright orange tip that is visible from the front
and all sides. This Day-Glo orange tip on the gun barrel must completely cover
the  ring opening as well as encompassing one and one half inches of the sides
of the weapon. This tip may not be covered at any time, and must be easily
noticeable from at least twenty paces away. These physical representations
cannot be an actual  rearm, nor actually capable of  ring. We highly recommend
constructing contact safe  rearms.
388

     Firearms Physical Representations, when drawn, must never be pointed
anyone’s face, nor should other physical representations ever be aimed any
higher than center torso. If combat becomes melee range for someone using a
 rearm, the  rearm must be lowered to that person’s side. That individual may
still throw packets or  re safe foam darts to represent  ring, however, for
safety the Physical Representations may not be extended outward at any time
during close quarter situations.
Non-Combatant Characters
    A player who has combat privileges suspended or revoked, or who is non-
contact combat for other reasons such as health issues, must wear a bright
orange headband to signify their status. Players who are unable to participate
in combat are heavily encouraged at character creation to design characters that
are not focused on combat. Non-contact players may have martial concepts denied
by the staff.
Engaging in Combat with a Non-Combat Character
    A non-contact combat character can still be attacked, but the attacker must
not strike the player. Instead, the attack must approach within melee striking
range, or reasonable missile range (approximately 10 feet) and then call damage
(or Skills). Each strike that is called automatically lands. Note that these
attacks cannot be rattled off rapid- re, but must be delivered at a cadence that
is reasonable to the type of attack being used. Non-contact players cannot hold
weapons in their hands, but can wear them at their side. If the non-contact
player is in contact with a weapon, including one in a sheath or holster, they
can call defensive Skills that are dependent on having a weapon in-hand.

389
 Contact Safe Combat
Dystopia Rising is a lightest touch contact safe combat game. This means that by engaging in a Dystopia Rising LARP Network event, you understand that you are entering an environment where consensual physical contact is going to happen in the simulation of combat.
Engaging in Contact Safe Combat
    Once that you have determined that an area is safe and that all those
involved are available for contact safe combat, then the following rules
apply must be followed to determine legal strikes, damage, and Skill use. Any
violation of these rules can be cause for your contact safe combat privileges to
be revoked.
Legal Striking Areas
1) You may strike the chest, back, side, legs, shoulders, and arms of your target
2) Strikes to the head, neck, groin, hand, and foot are not legal strikes and not allowed
3) Striking prohibited targets may cause harm to others and may be cause for your contact safe combat privileges to be revoked
Strike Speed, Location, and Force
    1) At all times you must be in control of your contact safe weapon, and
    all strikes are to be to lightest touch. Failure to show proper control
    or complaints due to hard strikes may result in contact safe rights being
    revoked.
    2) All strikes must be 90 degree strikes to lightest touch. Strikes
    signi cantly less than 90 degrees do not simulate realistic melee combat,
    and may not count. Strikes signi cantly over 90 degrees are not safe, and
    may cause harm to your target. These strikes are not allowed.
    3) During a  urry of three strikes, the  rst and the second strike may
    not strike the same location on your target. In a series of two to three
    strikes, the second strike must always land on a different location than the
     rst (upper torso and lower torso are acceptable).
    4) No more than three strikes may be landed in a row without  rst observing
    a full  second disengagement before striking again. ‘Drum rolling’, ‘machine
    gunning’ or ‘ urry attacks’ are not allowed and do not count for damage or
    Skill effects.  Between each set of three strikes a player should be able to
    say ‘One Mississippi’.
    5) Tangential strikes must land in different parts of the body.  This means
    that while strike 1 and strike 3 may be in the same place on the body,
    strike 2 must be in a different zone.  The different zones of the body are
390

     considered upper front torso, lower front torso, upper back torso, lower
    back torso, upper right arm, lower right arm, upper left arm, lower left
    arm, upper right leg, lower right leg, upper left leg, lower left leg.
    6) In the instance that you wish to strike the same place twice in a row,
    you must pause for a second before reengaging.  The 1 second ‘reset’ pause
    between  urries starts a  urry over new.
    7) Striking two or three different people does not cause  urry rules.
    Striking the same person multiple times in a row with the same weapon
    causes a three strike  urry.  In the instance that a player strikes their
     rst target, and then a second target, and then goes back to the  rst
    target then the player does not need to pause to reset their  urry. In the
    instance that Florentine  ghting is being used, a total of 6 strikes may
    be landed (three with each blade) before reset needs to occur.  Brawling
    strikes is limited to 3 strikes total (sum between both brawlers) before
    reset needs to occur.
    8) As all strikes are to lightest touch, any melee strike that contacts a
    shield or melee weapon prior to landing is considered blocked. ‘Pushing
    past’ a parry is unsafe and not allowed.
    9) Weapons must be held upright, and reverse gripping weapons is not
    allowed.  Reverse gripped weapons increase the likelihood of a punch strike
    accidentally happening.
    10) Weapon trapping, or ensnaring or holding another person’s weapon is not
    allowed.
Calling Damage, Skills, and Defenses
    1) When swinging or  ring you must call your damage and any skill modi ers.
    If damage and skill modi ers are not called then it is assumed that any
    melee strike only does one point of damage and any ranged strike does
    three. We recommend calling at least the numerical value of
    the damage to ensure that the struck person acknowledges
    the damage done. (example of three different attack
    calls: ‘3’, ‘3 Rad’, ‘3 blessed’)
    2) When you
    are striking
    with a mock
    combat weapon,
    you must call
    out the damage
    or effects that
    are associated with a
    strike.
    3) When using a Skill to counter
    a strike or effect, the defending
    player has roughly 5 seconds to
    respond with the defensive Skill being
    used to negate the simulated attack.

391
 Safely Using Shields
    1) Shields must be kept vertical and close to the body.  Do not extend your
    arm to block shots aimed at other people or push your shield out as a means
    of forcing distance between you and another player.
    2) Hooking or holding another person’s Shield is not allowed.
    3) Shield bashing, charging, or other tactics to force a person backward or
    to cause an individual to lose their footing are not allowed.
Ranged Weapons, Darts, and Packets
    1) Packets and foam darts representing  rearm rounds are considered to have
    hit if they strike a shield, unless Skills are used to cause these shots to
    re ect, or if the item in question causes a ‘no effect’ response.
2) Firing ranged combat mock weapons (representation for bows or pistols) may only be used at a minimum range of two steps. Once combat engages closer than 2 steps, the user of a ranged combat mock weapon may no longer  re but instead must use fabric and seed packets to represent ranged attacks (see crafting guides presented by the Dystopia Rising Network).
General Rules
    1) At any point if a ‘Hold’ is called, all those within ear shot must
    immediately cease movement and conversation until the ‘Hold’ is cleared. At
    any point if safety is in question a ‘Hold’ may be called by any person.
    2) Person to person contact mid con ict is not allowed.
    3) Guidelines for mock melee, brawling, throwing, and range weapons are
    provided via the Dystopia Rising Network.  These guidelines can and will
    change to match to the available technologies and techniques available to
    the LARP community as a whole.
And when all else fails, always err on the side of safety.
392

 Damage vs Health
In a world as full of threats, it is no surprise that every survivor will likely see damage hurled their way. Some have gotten tough to withstand that harm, while others turn tail and run before they get dropped. To represent that toughness, every character has what is known as their Health. A character’s Health is the number of points of damage that a character can take before they enter the state known as Bleed Out.
    A character starts each event entering play with full health. From that
point on, however, Health does not naturally replenish like Mind Points on the
twelves. Health can be restored in a variety of ways, such as Brews, medical
skills, faith based abilities, or even psionic powers. However, most of these
abilities take time to implement, so it’s important for a character to keep
close track of their health if they don’t want to take an untimely dirt-nap.
    Players are encouraged to act out their pain as they walk around wounded,
to use fake blood to show more severe wounds, and look to get yourself patched
up as soon as possible. As much as real world people do not like walking around
will gashing wounds and bullet holes, your character too would look to get
healed as soon as possible.

393
 Restoring Health
Medical Skills, Meals, faith based abilities, and psionic powers all can restore the body, but they take time. Any skill that restores Health or Mind only only does so upon the successful completion of the skill, even though the Mind Points spent to start the Skill are invested at the beginning, so best be sure you are somewhere safe when the preacher starts laying hands to heal your wounds!
Healing Quick List
    The following chart is a quick reference list of the most common means
to heal a character, and, who the legal targets of that means of healing are.
These effects may change if equipment or items have speci c mechanics listed
that override who can be the target of an effect.
 Means of
 Healing
 Brew,
 Injected
 Brew,
 Consumed
 Brew,
 Inhaled
 Brew,
 Applied
 Call the
 Almighty
Cure Toxin
394
Self- Self - Administer Administer Administer? Administer to Others? to Others
Special Notes
Injections
require
acceptance
of receiving
person.
Requires
generic crafted
smoking
devices.
Applied brews
are applied to
objects such as
weapons unless
otherwise
stated.
Does not work
if under the
effects of
choking blow.
Does not work
on Red Star

in Bleed Out?
Yes Yes
Yes No Yes No
Yes No
No No
Yes No
            who are in
            Bleed Out?
Yes, if     Yes
other
allows it.
Yes, if     Yes
other
allows it.
No No
No Yes
Yes Yes
Yes Yes
 Means of
Healing
Faith
Healing
First Aid
Fix Limb
Meal,
Consumed
Medical
Assistance
Medical
Genius
Psionic
Skill: Jolt
Self- Self - Administer Administer Special Notes Administer? Administer to Others? to Others

in Bleed Out?
Yes No
Yes No
Yes No
Yes No No No No No Yes No
            who are in
            Bleed Out?
Yes Yes
Yes Yes
Yes Yes
No          No
Yes         Yes
Yes         Yes
Yes         Yes
Does not work
if under the
effects of
choking blow.
Does not work
on Red Star
*Use for self-
administration
in non bleed-
out relate
to equipment
and Advanced
Professions.
Requires
functioning
(non-mangled
etc.) arms to
use Fix Limb.
395
 Damage vs Armor
Most survivors  gure out that the best way to protect themselves from the things that want to hurt them is to put something tough between those things and their squishy bits. Armor Items provide Armor Points similar to Health that are depleted before Health when taking damage. In addition to that, Armor is a fantastic defense against Poisons, which only affect the target if they deal damage directly to your Health Points. A character may only wear one set of Armor at a time. Armor cannot be stacked unless the item card speci cally states otherwise.
The Bene ts of Armor
Armor is a piece of equipment that is crafted in game, and requires a player to wear armor physical representation to gain the bene t of an additional pool of ‘Armor Health’ or ‘Armor Points’. Health that is provided by Armor is the  rst damage that is loss whenever a character is struck for damage or is hit with an effect that causes damage.
Armor also can provide a “Damage Reduction.” Damage Reductions ‘X’ reduces any and all incoming damage by ‘X’ amount, to a minimum of 1 Damage. So a suit of Armor that sports a Damage Reduction ‘5’ would cut a damage call of ‘15’ down to a damage call of ‘10’, but a damage call of ‘4’ would only be reduced to a damage call of ‘1’. In the case that a damage call has been reduced to the minimum of 1 damage,
it is the Armor wearer’s responsibility to call ‘Minimal’ in response to the damage call, so that the attacker knows their strikes are doing signi cantly less damage.
Armor Types & Appropriate Phys Reps
The rule for Armor is: For every point of Armor that you are wearing, 1% of your body needs to be covered with an appropriate representation of post-apocalyptic Armor. So an armored harness providing 15 Armor Points should cover 15% or more of your body.
However, you will  nd a few different styles of Armor in the Dystopia Rising world, each with their own  air. Each item card will have a name indicating the style of armor which you should keep in mind when  nding appropriate Phys Reps. You cannot bene t from the Armor Points or any special traits granted by Armor unless you are actively wearing the complete Physical Representation of the armor in question. Any Armor that is in play must be properly tagged to be used and associated with an Armor Item tag. See the Logistics Equipment Tag section for more details.
Jackets and Vests
Exactly what you would think, these Armors cover a smaller area, and area generally lightweight and fashionable. They provide few armor points, but can be discreet and cheap.
396

 Outerwear, Rigs, and Harnesses
    These medium weight Armors are typically crafted from heavy longcoats,
protective equipment, and plenty of belts and tactical webbing. They provide
a moderate amount of Armor points to the wearer, as well as a fair amount of
utility.
Body Armor and Armor Suits
    These heavy Armors typically cover the majority of the body, and provide
added protection to particularly vulnerable points like the neck, shoulders, and
hips. These Armors grant a signi cant amount of armor points, and are generally
made of sturdy materials, such as heavy synthetic  bers, plastic impact panels,
and metal plating.
Military Grade Armor
    These armors can be of any of the previous three types, but are made with
only the best materials, and were designed for heavy combat. Rumors exist that
Military grade gear not only provides the most armor, but also can have accept
military grade augments and attachments.
Starter Armor
    When a player comes to an event for the  rst time, they may be provided
starter Armor based on the Physical Representation that the player brings to
game.  Starter armor is never as good as crafted armor, and will expire within
12 months of having the Armor provided.  Crafted Armor is always superior Armor,
and players are encouraged to interact with crafters (or be one themselves) to
see about having Armor crafted.
Breaking and Repairing Armor
Armor at times provides bene ts more than just armor points. These bene ts
are provided by the armor as long as the armor is not ‘broken’. Armor is considered ‘broken’ if the skills Break or Destroy Armor has been successfully used on a set of armor, or if the Armor reaches zero Armor Points. If at any time an armor is ‘Broken’, all mechanical bene ts of the Armor are lost. Note that any detriments associated with wearing the Armor, are not.
Some attacks bypass Armor. As an example, ZONE types of damage ignore Armor completely in regards to damage. If an attack bypasses Armor (does not interact with the Armor at all) then any modi cations that the Armor would provide are also ignored (such as being effective against Fire damage, or providing a damage reduction).
If Armor is broken, or brought to zero, for the ease of bookkeeping any use of Repair completely replenishes the available Armor provided Health. This means that, for example, a set of Armor provides 30 points of Armor Health. If it is damaged down to 20 available points and then hit with Break Armor, and is then brought to
be repaired, the armor will be given back repaired and back at 30 points of armor.

397
 When a Character Hits Zero Health: Dying and Bleed Out
Even with Armor and plenty of Health, the toughest survivors can get taken down. If you receive more damage than what you have in Health and Armor points, you have reached a stage known as ‘Bleeding Out’ and are perilously close to meeting the Grave Mind yourself!
Wailing Wounded
    While ‘Bleeding Out’, you have 5 minutes to have your wounds tended to. You
cannot move, attack, or use Skills during Bleed Out. During that time you may
call out in pain, moan, and make other death noises, unless silencing effects
have been used on you.
Bleed Out Timer
    Any Skills that halt or heal your Bleed Out process must be COMPLETED
before the 5 minutes have passed.  If stabilizing a character takes 2 minutes to
process, then that 2 minutes of roleplay must be completed before the 5 minutes
are up.  There are many tools of the trade, such as Crash Kits, that make the
stabilization process faster.
    You may not say how much time you have left in minutes, but you may
communicate your sense of urgency to the people patching you up.  Phrases like
‘You’re quick, I just got dropped’ or ‘Holy shit... I think I’m dying’ are both
completely acceptable ways to communicate to a player how long you have been
on the ground.  Saying ‘I only have 2 minutes left in my Bleed Out’ not only is
inappropriate to say given the fact that you are currently on the ground dying,
but also is a very genre jarring statement.  Always try to communicate mechanics
via in-character terminology.
Killing Blows
    During those 5 minutes of Bleeding Out, someone can end your 5 minutes
faster. By walking up and placing a weapon on you, they must loudly call out
“Killing blow one, Killing blow two, Killing blow three,” and then declare
the amount of damage of their attack. This process must be no faster than 5
seconds at which at the end they must declare damage and strike. Knocking
away a weapon before the count is complete forces the count to restart, as do
certain defensive Skills such as Interfere. If damage is not called, or it is
not suf cient to overcome any damage reducing effects, Bleed Out continues as
normal. If a Killing Blow does not do enough damage to kill a character, the
target receiving the Killing Blow must declare ‘insuf cient damage’.
398

 
 Taking a Death and Being Claimed by the Grave
    If a Killing Blow is used on you, or 5 minutes of Bleed Out pass without any
healing Skills or items successfully used on you, your character has ‘taken a
death’.  What happens is that you will wait for 15 minutes beyond the 15 minute
count as a prone corpse in character, and then you will put a green headband on.
The 15 minute past your Bleed Out allows PCs and NPCs the ability to interact
with your corpse before the infected body rots breaks apart and the entire body
is absorbed into the ground.  During this 15 minutes players may loot, eat,
or interact with your corpse.  Remember, you are not playing a human, and the
sudden and brutal dissolve of the post mortal  esh is something that people
have come to accept as a part of life.  While this doesn’t make the emotional
reaction of what has happened any less potent, it does make it a part of your
regular acceptance of the world.  It should also be noted that both Raiders and
Zombies do not rot at the same speed as Strains.  Raiders and Zombies may decay
in anywhere from 0 seconds to 5 minutes time.  If you are looking to harvest
materials from the undead, you will want to hustle.
    After the 15 minutes of post-mortem time, at this point you should
immediately head to Logistics, who will record your character’s death and
narrate a special scene for you.  If items were on your person, those items come
with you.  Any items that were going to be ‘looted’ from you need to be taken
before the 15 minutes you spent post Bleed Out as a corpse.
Post Mortem – What Happens Next
    After a character has taken a death, and the player goes to Logistics, a
few things happen.  First, the Storyteller or Marshal on duty is informed that a
character death has happened.  The Marshal will inform the Storyteller that the
death has occurred in the instance that the Storyteller is currently occupied
with organizing a module.
    There are instances where a character death happens during a period of time
where Logistics is not open.  More times than not, if Logistics is not open,
then the character death happened due to character verses character actions.
If character verses character actions have occurred, then a Storyteller or
Marshal is already on hand to marshal the character verses character action.
That Storyteller or marshal will oversee the recording of changes that occur
on a player’s sheet, and the player is given the option of having their Grave
Mind scene once Logistics opens up or if they would like the Marshal to  nd a
Storyteller to run their scene.  In either instance, the Marshal will ensure
that the player who has taken a character death is taken care of before leaving
the player.
    What happens next is that the character sheet has the infection change
recorded on their character sheet, and, the Storyteller who is overseeing the
Grave Mind scene or the Marshal present for the character verses character
action makes sure that the player is not having any issues in regards to how the
character death happened, or taking the character death personally on an out-of-
game level.  This is the perfect opportunity for the player and the staff member
to discuss what happened, to ensure that the player is emotionally stable and
of a right mind before entering play, and provides the player with one-on-one
interaction with an attentive and caring staff member.
400

     After the player is tended to, the Storyteller asks the player if they would
prefer to have a derangement randomly rolled for OR have one assigned based on
the Grave Mind scene which is about to occur.  This is completely up to the
player, allowing a degree of control over what is going to  avor the role-play
of the character when they return to game.
    The Storyteller then takes the player to a secluded location, and has the
character close their eyes.  The player then describes the last moments of
their death, and the Storyteller then in turn gives narration in regards to
the experience of what it is like to die in Dystopia Rising.  A personal scene
occurs, part of the nature of which is outlined in the section introducing the
Grave Mind and returning from the Grave Mind, after which the player returns to
play.
    When the player returns to play, they will have the loss of an infection
recorded on their sheet as well as the temporary derangement they have gained.
They will be walked back to where they will re-enter play (often time the
morgue), and they are instructed as to what their  rst experiences will be once
they return to play.  The player will return to play at full Health, however,
they will not have regained any Mind Points from the experience of death.
The Grave Mind Scene
and Returning from the Grave Mind
    The Grave Mind, as a concept, is an aspect of the Dystopia Rising universe
that permeates everything from the mythos of how the world fell all the way
through the very existence of the Strains that live in this post-apocalyptic
world.  Whenever a character is having lethal wounds pulled back together with
just some effort and bailing string, whenever a Psion uses their ability for
mental focus, and whenever an undead consumes the  esh of the living, both the
‘Infection’ and the ‘Grave Mind’ is involved.
    The ‘Infection’ is an organic born host that exists symbiotically within
modern day survivors.  It is often argued if what is commonly known as the
‘Infection’ is a blood born fungal entity, a viral inhabitant that affects
the body like a retrovirus, or some condition that pre-fall humanity has
accidentally engineered.  What is known is that within each Strain is a degree
of this ‘Infection’, and when one of the Strains dies it is eagerly consumed by
the Grave Mind.
The Grave Mind is both a series of physical locations as much as it a conceptual state of being. Rotted organic entities, immeasurable in size,
which exist in spaces in anywhere from a few yards to a few miles beneath the surface. Often times the Grave Mind has long networks of web-like  esh that extends close to the surface. These areas are commonly referred to as ‘Morgues’: Locations where creatures that have been processed by the Grave Mind return to the surface. Morgues have a tendency to grow into areas where high population (read: food sources) of the Infected exist. In areas that have a number of Psion presences, often times the Grave Mind will have a multitude of locations where it will expel individuals post death.

401
     The heart of the importance of the Grave Mind, beyond how it connects
to the existence of the world as a whole, relates directly to what happens
when an individual that carries a degree of the Infection (that would be all
Strains, most Raiders, and the undead) die.  The Infection that is within the
individual body works as the potent bond which keeps the  esh together,  despite
the radioactive environment, water that is poisonous by real world modern day
standards, and the continued existence of a people who routinely deal with near
death situations.
    It is theorized that the Infection is an extension of the Grave Mind as a
whole, and with that, anything that carries a portion of the Infection within it
is part of a loosely linked network that ties back to the Grave Mind creatures.
The Grave Mind, as an unliving psionic entity, pushes the infected Strains into
the world the same way that a star sh pushes its stomach out to eat.  The large,
nearly immobile, masses of the Grave Mind use the living Strains as a means to
not only collect sustenance, but also as a means to add unknown materials to the
collective psionic link.
    This co-dependent existence causes a unique situation for the world.  As
creatures with the Infection, it is due to the fact that the Infection carrying
materials within their body either cannot support life any longer or the body
has lost enough of the Infection carrying blood from their system that the
environment becomes terminal.  Regardless of which means causes the demise of
the Strain or Raider or Undead that carries the Infection, the Grave Mind reacts
by reabsorbing the corpse into itself.  Feeling a part of its system fail, the
fallen individual triggers a reaction that is not unlike when white blood cells
and platelets react to a cut on a human body.  It reacts in a way where it looks
to repair what damage has been done.
    The Grave Mind, each creature measured in hundreds of miles of mass, absorbs
the deceased Infection carrying portion back into itself.  Here the Grave Mind
temporarily stores the consciousness of the individual in the shared undead
consciousness that exists within the psionic link of all infected creatures,
and the Grave Mind attempts to repair the damages that have been done to the
formerly living individual.
    Unfortunately for those
that have died, having your
consciousness linked
across millions of
undead minds as well
as having it traipse
through the primal
subconscious
of the mentally
diseased Raiders
is not healthy for
the mind.  Being
aware, and sentient,
as your  esh is
deconstructed and
reknit is not healthy
for the mind.  The
immeasurable pain
and nearly unfathomable
experiences of existing in a
near pure thought form often
causes minds to break.
402

     The experience that the individual experiences, when they are dead, is often
dependent on the circumstances in which the individual died.  In addition to
the  avor of the individuals last moments breathing, the experience that the
individual has often time is completely colored by how one’s mind attempts to
comprehend and maintain its sense of ID and Ego while having its very existence
melted away.  Visual effects, memories from the long dead, harsh emotions, and
personi cation of the individual’s negative emotions may bombard the person who
is being reknit.
    Each time the Grave Mind reknits a fallen Infection carrier, the individual
that returns does so changed.  Much like a mirror that has been broken and
glued back together, the individual that has died has metaphorical cracks that
are  lled in by the infection.  Often times appearing as dark veins  lled with
the Infection, scars, or skin discolorations individuals that return from the
Grave Mind do so with a number of mental and physical shortcomings.  At times
individuals report feeling a presence within the Grave Mind ‘take something’
away from them, like portions of the brain or emotional connections.  This
explanation of personi cation is the mind’s attempt to comprehend and describe
what a completely alien and horri c experience.
    When a character emerges from the Grave Mind, they do so at full health
unless otherwise instructed by the overseeing staff member.  The Mind Points
that the player had when they entered the Grave Mind is the same as when they
exited the Grave Mind, unless the overseeing staff member states otherwise.
Any diseases, poisons, psionic effects, and chemical augmentations that the
player had on them are removed unless otherwise instructed by the staff member
overseeing the Grave Mind scene.
    One thing that players should keep in mind is that the Grave Mind is not
a place that people would willingly wish to enter.  From dullards to Grave
Robbers, entering the Grave Mind is a situation that may result in the permanent
end of a characters life.  Characters that take entering the Grave Mind lightly
may  nd that the Grave Mind takes more than one infection from them, or that
the Grave Mind rips the mind of those that enter apart.  The Grave Mind intends
on absorbing all thought, and all  esh, into itself so that it may be fed and
evolve.  Those that do not  ght to live, or enter the Grave Mind in mirth
unprepared, may never come back out.
Grave Mind Basic Information
    Since we are discussing the Grave Mind in relation to what happens when a
character dies, it is appropriate to then discuss the Basic information that
any character a player would portray would have in regards to the Grave Mind.
The Grave Mind, as a whole, is a concept that has many of its details purposely
hidden from standard player view.  With the volume of story and plot that is
related to the process of character death, it is often times important to keep
certain details about localized Grave Mind nuances kept hidden.
    However, there are a number of standardized details that any player can
assume that their character knows about the Grave Mind from word of mouth,
written materials, or  rst hand experiences.  If a player chooses to come into
play without this information, they are welcome to do so, however, this is a
decision for a player to make for themselves.

403
 The Grave Mind is a series of massive biological masses that range in size from hundreds to low thousands of miles. These masses of undead biological networked  esh exist beneath the surface of the earth, and reach hundreds of miles beneath the surface. The Grave Mind is a creature suspended between a state of steady organic growth and continued organic decay. These festering creatures, far too large to exist on their own, are an amalgamation of shapeless  esh, muscle, and mucus tissue networked together with spans of sickly fungal materials.
Where the Grave Mind comes closest to the surface are areas commonly known as Morgues. While many simpler minded characters may believe that morgues are some form of spiritual manifestation that exists between the world of the living and the world of the dead, the horrible fact is that morgues are more accurately described as ori ces or sphincters.
As one could easily then extrapolate, each Grave Mind is a creature so massive that its ability to feed itself through conventional means is severely restricted. When you are creature that is larger than many smaller pre-fall countries, and
your physical form exists in a state of constant growth and death, being capable of feeding yourself requires extensive efforts.
To feed itself, in many forms of the word, the Grave Mind uses the process of death and consumption of infected living tissue as a means to feed itself. Like
a parasite, as the living Strains and the even heavier infected undead corpses consume, the infection within the parasitically linked host is fed. As a living or undead host is destroyed, the Grave Mind infection begins to liquefy the deceased corpse. The corpse in turn is pulled back into the earth within 1-5 minutes of
the death of the host form. The un-living infection within the host signals back to the primary form of the localized Grave Mind that a food source is ready to be harvested, and the decaying form is pulled back into the rotted womblike form of the Grave Mind.
The experience of entering the Grave Mind varies slightly from person to
person, however, the reason behind the process does not change. As the body of an infection host dies, the body and mind are absorbed back into the rotting form of the Grave Mind. The physical body and ego of the dying individual (the part of the mind that says ‘I am me’) begins to break down. As the body and concept of self begin to break down, the individual dying person begins to experience stimulus that their mind cannot completely understand or sanely comprehend. Tens of thousands of hive mind thoughts, almost in the form of dead ‘voices’,  ood into the dead person’s mind. The physical limitations of the physical form (having a body) goes away.
Depending on the individual, either experiences of extreme pain or complete inability to feel anything spread as the individual’s body and mind are absorbed into the Grave Mind.
What happens next is what causes the most confusion, and argument, about the nature of the Grave Mind. As the individual’s mind becomes part of the ‘whole’ of the Grave Mind, the individual’s mind connects with an inhuman consciousness that does not think or believe or care in what would be traditionally considered ‘sentient consciousness’.
The Grave Mind is not a person. The Grave Mind is not a human. The Grave Mind is not any Strain. The Grave Mind does not actually appear to a single person, nor does it give any more consideration for a dying person than a starving person would give the emotions of a dinner roll. The Grave Mind is not a thing that cares or understands the dying.
404

 The Grave Mind is an eldritch horror that exists on a plane of shared consciousness that is beyond the comprehension of any individual or Strain. The Grave Mind is not consciously aware of any individual that enters. The Grave Mind uses the living Strains as a means to collect food, to add knowledge to the deathless knowledge base, and when the Grave Mind is  nished consuming it exudes the husk away from itself.
However, the individual ego and perception of the person who is dying struggles to understand the crushing awareness and limitless thought that *is* the Grave Mind, and the individual dying person’s mind translates and restricts what is truly happening while trying to make what it sees make sense.
The Grave Mind does not make deals. The Grave Mind does not care about those that pass through it. The Grave Mind has no gender, does not abide by logical ‘thought’, and does not care about the dying container that its food came in. The visions that occur within the Grave Mind are the visions of a desperate person trying to apply reason and thought to something that they cannot control and do not understand. While people may have memories and thoughts that they believe
are real in regards to interactions within the grave, the fact of the matter is that these scenes are nothing more than a dying person’s ego trying to reassert a comprehendible reality.
Sometimes, on a rare occasion, the dying individual gains thoughts and memories that are not their own as they pass through the Grave Mind. The dying person sees thoughts and memories that have become a part of the Grave Mind when others passed through the unliving biomass. These experiences, thoughts, and memories play out like real memories and thoughts leaving the dying person unsure of the borders and de nition of their own mind and the broken remains of the suffering dead. Also, on other rare occasions, an individual passing through the Grave Mind may leave enough of themselves within the Grave Mind where there are mental residual ‘imprints’ on the experience of those that pass through during death. These ‘imprints’ may be people or memories that reoccur to those within a state of death, however, they are not physical and real to those outside of the Grave Mind.
In short, the Grave Mind is a huge biomass of fungus and dying
 esh that uses the infected as
its mouths. As the infected die,
the biomass absorbs the dying individual and is fed through the infected materials. When
the Grave Mind is  nished consuming, it expels the dead
person back into the world.
Every time this process occurs, more of the mind of
the individual is lost to the Grave Mind and the infection
becomes more and more predominant in the living form. Eventually, both
the mind and the body of the individual are broken
to the point where they cannot be reconstructed
by the Grave Mind and a zombie ‘feeder’ is
expelled instead.

405
 Non-Damage Effects
    Not every mechanical con ict resolution involves  ghting.  Sometimes the use
of brews, roleplay changing effects, and unique items are brought into play that
need to be considered in regards to con ict resolution.  Even at times con ict
will happen that is consensual, and does not require a Marshal to be present.
    The following guideline should be followed in regards to the use of Brews,
Gizmos, and Non-Damage Effects.
    First, ask yourself if there is a negative character sheet changing effect.
If you are adding a derangement, adding an addiction, causing harm, using
psionic powers, taking items against a player’s will, causing harm or character
death then without a doubt you need to go to step number 2.  Uses of Skills
that are purely socially focused such as Lie, Interrogate, and Charisma do not
require a Marshal.  Use of devices, meals, or brews that cause a non-mechanical
response (intoxication, roleplay direction, etc) do not require a Marshal.
    Second, if there is a negative sheet changing effect, clarify with those
involved in the interaction if they are comfortable with resolving simple non-
lethal mechanical items between those involved.  Simply put your hand on your
head and clarify ‘Can we resolve mechanics ourselves?’ in any situation that
cannot result in the loss of items or cause harm to another character.  ALL
instances that involve potential character death MUST require a staff member.
All instances of ‘cabin raiding’ or item theft require a Marshal.
    Third, if any party involved does not agree to resolving mechanics with
one another the intended scene should be put off until a Marshal can be found.
There is not a ‘hold’ put on the scene, but instead, those involved will in-
character wait until a Marshal is available.
406

 Items and Equipment
Basic Equipment Guide
    The following guide is designed to allow players to understand the scale of
the crafting system and subsequent economy that exists within Dystopia Rising.
To explain crafting, equipment, and mechanical design equipment has been given
 ve general categories of use.  These four general categories are de ned as
Starter Equipment, Basic Equipment, Expendable Equipment, Invested Equipment,
and Superior Equipment.  These descriptors have absolutely no weight or use in
regards to actual mechanic design, but instead are simply used to explain basic
crafting concepts and equipment evolution to players.
Starter Equipment
    Starter equipment are materials that a new character is provided when they
attend game for the  rst time.  This equipment is designed to be short lived
(only 6 months until it expires) but allows players to have materials from their
‘time before game’.  Starter Equipment is also limited on how far the equipment
can be improved, allowing only a maximum crafts level of 3.   Here is a complete
list of Starter equipment a character may start with:
Starting Skill
Bolt Action Bow Brawling Brewing First Aid
Fishing Melee Large
Melee Small Melee Standard Melee Two-Handed Shield
Throwing
Throwing, Javelins
Starting Item
Starter Shooter. 1 Handed. 3 Damage. Maximum Crafts 3 Starter Bow, 2 Handed, 2 Damage, Maximum Crafts 3 Starter Knucks. 2 Handed. 1 Damage. Maximum Crafts 3 2 Snake Oil Brews. Ingested. Heals 5 body.
Starter Emergency Kit. 2 Handed. Causes First Aid to take 30 seconds.
Starter Fishing
Starter Maximum
Starter
Starter
Starter
Starter
Fishing Pole (As per generic item creation). Used for
Melee Large. 1 or 2 hands. 2 or 3 Damage (by hands) Crafts 3.
Melee Small. 1 Hand. 2 Damage. Maximum Craft 3.
Melee Standard. 1 Hand. 2 Damage. Maximum Craft 3. Melee Two-Handed. 2 Hands. 3 Damage. Maximum Craft 3. Shield. 1 Hand. Crafts Level 1. Bounce rate 5 damage.
Starter Thrown Weapons, Set of 6. One Hand. 2 Damage. Maximum
Craft 3.
Starter Throwing Javelins. Set of 1. One Hand. 3 Damage. Maximum Craft 3.
2 uncommon Herb or Scrap. Herb has 6 month expiration.
Trade Ties
   All starter items have a maximum expiration date of 6 months.

407
 Starter Armor, available without skill.
    Anyone is allowed to come into their  rst or second game and receive the
bene ts of getting a set of Starter Armor.  Like all other starter gear, Starter
Armor has an expiration date of 6 months from the time the card was issued.  If
you are making your own starter armor physical representation you will want to
make a very basic set of armor for your  rst piece.  Often times characters have
armor crafted in game to produce better valued armor item cards.  Better valued
armor requires more coverage, and with that, you will want to leave yourself the
leeway to add and improve your armor Physical Representation to match your newly
in-game crafted armor.
    Starter armor is rated on the following scale.
1-10 points of armor provided for total body coverage
        Points break down as full torso coverage providing 4 points, both arms
    providing 2 points, both legs providing 2 points, and head providing 2
    points.
1-10 points of armor provided for materials used for armor
        Points break down as 1-3 points for leathers, 4-6 points for leathers
    with genre appropriate plastics reinforcing, 7-9 given for battered metal
    reinforced cloth and leather, 10 given to combinations of mostly metals.
1-10 points of armor provided for genre appropriate nature of armor
        Points break down as 1-2 points given if it looks like it was taken
    straight off the shelf or purchased at a ren fair, 3-4 points if it looks
    like it was hand made and/or incorporates cold war era components, 5-6 if
    the armor is armor appropriate materials re-purposed as workable armor
    (items that would stop a bullet), 7-10 if the materials are hand made from
    re-purposed materials that look like they jumped off the pages of the
    Dystopia Rising Table Top Books.
Basic Equipment
    Basic equipment is any piece of equipment that can be crafted in game,
using crafting skills, to produce a piece of non-starter equipment.  Basic
Equipment often times does not have an expiration date to it, is much more
ef cient in regards to use, and is an item that can be improved to higher
quality.  Basic Equipment is the fall back equipment that every character should
look to have crafted even if they have better Invested or Superior equipment.
Basic Equipment is reliable, and when everything else breaks, is the item that
survivors reach for in a pinch.
Expendable Equipment
    Expendable Equipment are single use or limited use items.  Expendable
Equipment includes things such as brews, meals, ammunition, grenades, and other
limited use items.  Expendable Equipment often times has a listing of the
number of uses the item has, or, the duration of the items effect.  Expendable
Equipment ranges from cheap to expensive, with simple brews and complex
engineered items all sometimes falling under the Expendable Equipment category.
Expendable Equipment is important, as most life-saving and major effect items
are only single use items.
408

 Invested Equipment
    Invested Equipment are equipment that have been crafted from a blueprint.  A
blueprint is a series of instructions, skill requirements, time, and resources
needed for crafting a speci c item.  Invested Equipment, items that come from
Blueprints, often times have expiration dates.  While this equipment does only
last a limited number of months from the time they are crafted, these items are
much more useful and much more potent than anything found in Basic Equipment.
The more powerful an item is, the shorter the expiration will be (most of the
time down to 6 months).
Superior Equipment
    There is some equipment that players are just incapable of crafting.  Even
with Techno Savants working themselves silly, some equipment can only be
achieved by special means.  Superior Equipment is rare.  Superior Equipment has
its details outlined on a Unique item card, and often times Superior Equipment
requires extensive role play, networking, or great feats of prowess to get.
Superior Equipment is branch speci c, and like any other unique item card,
needs to be approved by the directors of a home branch before it is allowed
to enter play.  All Superior Equipment items must be signed by either the
Head Storyteller or the Director of a branch, and all Superior Equipment items
may not have more than a 6 month expiration date on them.  Any item that is
found signed by someone other than a Director or Head Storyteller, hasn’t been
approved by a local branch, or does not have the appropriate expiration date on
it is considered immediately null and void.  It is in a player’s best interests
to ensure their item cards are properly  lled out, reviewed, and follow the
guidelines given for Superior Equipment.

409
 Usage of Brews
    Brews come in 4 forms of use: Ingested, Injected, Inhaled, and Applied.
These four forms have different usage mechanics.
Ingested
    This form of brew requires a volume of liquid that is swallowed.  This form
of brew requires a Physical Representation of a liquid (water preferred) that
is available for mock consumption.  Ingested brews cannot be self-administered
during Bleed Out.
Injected
    Injected brews are injected via a form of syringe.  These brews may be used
by an individual on themselves, even in Bleed Out, however may not be stabbed
into another player as an attack unless the individual is subdued (Tie bonds,
Knocked out, asleep, paralyzed, in Bleed Out).  If players choose to mediate
the injection of a brew between each other without the presence of a marshal,
then an injection may be allowed as long as all parties accept.  This does not
prevent a player from in-character lying about the content of an Injectable
during roleplay, or assuming that the injection is not an effect which causes
the loss of health and/or life.  To inject an individual against their will,
an Injected substance must be loaded into a mechanical device (crafted by
Blueprint) that will forcibly inject the item into a target.  In the instance
that the target is wearing armor, the strike would have to bypass armor to be
successful.
Inhaled
    Inhaled brews generally require a form of pipe or mask for inhalation.
Often times combined in a smokable form, these brews have an effect upon
partaking in the inhalation of the item.  These brews do not require the actual
inhalation of smoke or the like by players, however, appropriate Physical
Representations and roleplaying should be followed. Some Inhaled brews are
delivered as packet-attacks via the Thrown weapon Skill using a green packet
and are treated as a ranged attack, representing a powder or gas inhaled by the
victim.
Applied
    Applied brews have an effect once they are applied to an object.  These
effects have limited use, and, are considered expended even if the brew strikes
armor and does not trigger their effect.  Most Applied brews are combat
modi ers, and with that in mind, often times require a Marshal for any sort of
player character verses player character use (at time of strike, not at time of
putting item on the blade).  A weapon or object may only have one Applied brew
on it at any time.
410

 Brew Effects
    To revive the effects or bene t of a Brew or Meal, one must consume a full
serving (de ned by the volume that is produced).  This rule applies to all forms
of Brews and Meals.  It is acceptable to split Brews and Meals between multiple
people, however, unique item cards will not be provided for portions of meals.
In addition, if a Meal or a Brew is split between multiple people, none of the
people partaking in the Brew or a Meal will receive the bene t or disadvantages
of the Brew or Meal. This includes full intoxication, medicinal effects, health
bene ts, mechanical bonus- no bene t is bestowed.  The Item Card is, however,
destroyed as the item in question has been consumed when the volume is empty.
    In the instance that a Brew or Meal requires a certain volume to have a non-
mechanical roleplay effect, that equivalent volume must be consumed to have the
effect.  As an example, taking a sip from a slightly alcoholic brew doesn’t get
you drunk.
Stacking Damage Augmentations, Poisons, Effects, and Damage Reductions
    When using equipment, Brews, Skill effects, and other forms of augments
there are a few important concepts and rules to keep in mind.
Base versus Burst Damage
    The amount of damage you swing, every swing, is considered your “Base”
damage. Your base damage can be temporarily augmented by a variety of items
and Skills for some duration of time, (typically 1, 5, or 10 minutes). “Burst”
damage is the damage dealt by single-use Skills and items, or items that have a
limited number of shots before expiring. Burst damage cannot be augmented unless
a Skill or item expressly states that it can be combined or augmented.
    For example, a character is wielding a Crafts Level 5 weapon that deals 6
damage. They use a dose of crafts 5 Liquid Gold that boosts their Base Damage
to 11 for 30 minutes. During their next  ght, they use “Sever” to deal 15 Burst
Damage for a single blow, which is not augmented by the Liquid Gold.
Skills Do the Speci ed Amount of Burst Damage Unless Expressly Stated.
    If a Skill causes a weapon to do a speci c numerical value of Burst Damage,
use of that Skill will cause that amount of Burst Damage unless the modi er
speci cally says otherwise.
    For example, a weapon that somehow swings 13 Base Damage still only does 10
Burst Damage when ‘Murder’ is used.  However, if the character were under the
effect of an item that expressly states “Doubles the damage of one use of Murder
while in effect,” then one use of Murder would deal 20 Burst Damage instead of
its usual 10.

411
 Duplicate Effects Do Not Stack. Only the Greatest Effect is Active.
    Effects of the same type do not stack with one another, such as damage
buffs, bonus health, bonus armor, etc, unless the item or Skill expressly states
that it can be stacked with the same types of effects. Whichever effect has the
greater numerical total trumps and replaces any other duplicate effects. So, for
example, if you get a Brew that gives you +4 Damage in Melee and then drink a
Brew that gives +3 Rad Damage in Melee, you only get the +4 Damage.
Damage Modi ers Do Not Stack.
    Damage modi ers are all considered the same type of effect, but there is no
hierarchy to their strength.  Only the last damage modi er applied is used.  If
you have a weapon that always deals Poison Damage and then apply a Radiation
effect to a weapon, you only declare Rad damage for the duration of the effect.
    The only exception to this is the “Body” modi er, since it indicates
bypassing the armor of a target speci cally. Body damage can stack with other
damage types, but the second damage modi er still follows the general rule
above.
Stronger Effects Negate Weaker Effects Regardless of Duration.
          As indicated above, it is possible for someone to have a +3 Damage
buff active, only to then use a +4 Damage buff which replaces the +3 Damage
buff. If the replaced effect had a duration, it is immediately prematurely
ended. So for example, if the +3 Damage Buff had a duration of 30 Minutes, and
the +4 Damage Buff had a duration of 5 Minutes, the +3 for 30 minutes would be
immediately cancelled, the +4 for 5 minutes would take immediate effect, and
after it had run its 5 minute course, the character would no longer be under the
effect of any damage buf ng effects.
    Note that these rules only affect the positive bene ts from using an item or
skill. If there is a drawback associated with the negated ability, it will still
affect the character as normal.
412

 Item Mechanics
The Dystopia Rising world explores the many different aspects of survival in a post-apocalyptic world, including the many crafts and trades that survivors can take up in an effort to get an edge in such a cut-throat world. How that translates into gameplay is in the form of crafting Skills and Item Cards, which players can use in play.
Roleplay Items
    Most of the objects you will interact with in a Dystopia Rising event are
considered roleplay items, which do not require Item Cards to possess. These
can be as simple as buttons and decorations on clothing, or basic tools and
equipment you carry on your person for your in-game trades and roleplay. These
items do not require Item Cards, since they have no effect on in game mechanics
and effects. These items should always be genre appropriate, and help build the
post-apocalyptic atmosphere of the game.
Non-Mechanics Item Cards
    Some roleplay items stand out, however, because they are particularly
useful, or perhaps rare in the Dystopia Rising world. For example, a Printer
may want a tinker to craft him a refurbished Type Writer. While an intact Type
Writer is dif cult to come by, a dedicated Tinker could certainly use Building
Tomorrow to expend in-game resources and time to craft such a device with what
technologies are available to survivors. After completing the construction of
the item, an appropriate Generic Item Card would be issued for the Type Writer,
and the device can now enter play as an in-game roleplay tool and resource.
    Generic Item Cards can also be used to represent Brews, Meals, and Building
Augments which do not have mechanical effect, but can be traded for in-game
resources, such as selling drinks at a bar or tea shop, or selling snacks at a
lunch stand or farmer’s market.
Resources
    Everything built by the hands of in game Tinkers, Distillers, Engineers,
and Cooks require resources. Those resources come from a variety of profession
skills, as well as from the world at large in play. The most common resources
you will  nd are Scrap and Herb.
    Scrap represents the most basic building materials that can be found in the
wasteland. These leftover bits and pieces from the pre-fall world still have
useful bits of hardware, metal, plastic, or other simple elements that can be
reclaimed and reused to build new items. Scrap can come in one of four levels
of quality: Basic, Uncommon, Rare, and Named. Each level of quality represents
how generally useful and valuable each piece of Scrap is, and how hard it is to
 nd. Named Scrap, in particular, are very particular pieces of Scrap like Firing
Pins, Motors, and Animal Hides that can be used in speci c crafting procedures
like Master Crafting. Generally Scrap is durable, but particularly beat up Scrap
can expire in anywhere from two months to a year.

413
     Herb represents basic vegetation that can be harnessed by Distillers and
Cooks to make into powerful restoratives and augmentations. These Herbs grow
in the toxic wastelands, so it’s hard to come by Herb safe enough to use for
human consumption. Thankfully, Farmers and Scroungers can come up with quite a
bit of it of varying qualities: Basic, Uncommon, Rare, and Named. Each level of
quality represents how useful and dif cult to  nd a given Herb is. Named Herb,
in particular, represents speci c plants and berries that can unlock potent
and especially sought after brews and meals. Herb found in the wild will expire
after three months. Herb raised through farming will expire after six months.
    Produce represents the fundamentals needed for making foodstuffs, usually
grown in controlled environments, like milk, eggs, and honey. These resources
are very dif cult to come by without the assistance of a Farmer or Hunter, but
can allow a skilled Cook to make some truly spectacular meals. Produce, unless
properly preserved, will expire after six months.
    Currency represents a local region’s trade notes, be they pre-fall credit
cards, transport passes, or billets of pressed metal. While craftsmen may not be
able to use these resources directly to produce their goods, they certainly can
use them to barter and trade for the component parts they need. Each currency
has its own trade rate against the Trade Union’s Trade Note, a universal caravan
currency established by one of the largest trade networks of the wasteland, and
many communities take pride in how valuable their currency is by comparison to
that caravan currency used for trading between settlements.
414

 Weapons
Weapons are any item that requires a Weapon Skill to properly use. Melee weapons can be used to deliver melee attacks keyed to their weapon type. Generally speaking, melee weapons are items designed to provide a character a means of affecting other creatures through the use of aggressive attack Skills. Any weapon that is in play must be properly tagged to be used and associated with a weapon Item Tag. See the Logistics Equipment Tag section for more details.
    Weapons can come a huge variety of shapes and sizes, given that most are
cobbled together from what resources folks can  nd in their environment. You are
just as likely to see someone using an old hockey stick as a stock for a ri e or
as a handle for an axe. Below are all the different styles of weapons you will
 nd in the Dystopia Rising system.
Melee Weapons
Small
    A one handed small weapon, used for precision strikes.
Standard
    A one handed weapon, simple to use and simple to  nd.
Large
    A weapon that can be wielded with one or two hands. These are sought after
for their  exibility in combat and mostly wielded by militant professions.
Two Handed
    A two handed weapon, typically use for powerful and long reaching strikes.
Pole-Arm
    A two handed long weapon, only used by the most dedicated melee  ghters.
Ranged Weapons
Throwing, Small
    A one handed thrown weapon that typically comes in sets of 6 and are prized
for their stealth.
Throwing, Javelins
    A one handed thrown weapon that packs more punch than their smaller cousins.

415
 Bows
From one handed crossbow pistols to two handed recurve bows, these weapons don’t have the damage potential of guns, but their easy to reuse ammo makes them dangerous.
Bolt Action
One handed pistols and two handed ri es both qualify to use a wide range of munitions that make them particularly deadly in the hands of Gunslingers and Snipers.
Heavy Ordinance
These massive weapons can utilize ammo meant for bows or guns with little modi cation. Only the most dedicated (some would say crazy) gunmen around use these.
Shields
    It is no surprise that the post apocalypse has brought shields back into
fashion. With every other survivor wearing a machete or cleaver on their belt,
having a solid plank of something to put between them and you is a pretty
attractive proposition. Shields are defensive “weapons” of a sort that allow a
competent survivor to de ect blows, Bounce away incoming projectiles, and even
Knock Down enemies getting to close for comfort. However, shields have some
inherent drawbacks, such as being very large targets for psionics and bullets.
Shields Stop
    Melee Strikes
    Arrows (Blue Packets)
    Projectile Poisons (Green Packets)
Shields Do Not Stop
    Bullets (Red Packets)
    Psionics (White Packets)
Gizmos
    Aside from your typical weapons, shields, and armor, there are Gizmos.
Gizmos are a broad catch-all category of items that a survivor may be able to
bene t from. These devices can be tools, SCIENCE! gadgetry, or useful baubles
that give the survivor some advantage out there in the wasteland.  Many Gizmos
require power to operate, and it is not uncommon to  nd items such as batteries
and specialized fuel that can operate these devices.
416

 Traps
    Traps are items that can be mounted to other objects via the Attach skill.
These items have to be activated by a triggering mechanism and are generally
designed to in ict terrible harm on someone for being so foolish as to set them
off. However, Traps can also be useful tools to the right people. Hunters and
Fishermen can use a variety of Traps to gather specialty Produce and Hides.
Traps require a minimum Phys Rep of the Trap card attached to a black string
indicating the trigger mechanism of the Trap. You can  nd more details regarding
Traps in the Skills section under Attach and Trapmaking.
Prints
Survivors exemplify the age old adage that necessity is the mother of all invention, so it should come as not surprise that the wasteland is  lled with opportunities to  nd instructions and hints about how to push the limits of crafting and even some skills. Prints are sheets of paper found in game that provide the necessary instructions for characters to perform specialized techniques and alter the way certain skills work. Traders, craftsmen, and survivors regularly will trade, sell, and duplicate prints in an effort to spread the knowledge of these techniques across the wasteland, while others hoard and closely guard their stash. Many communities can be measured by the access they have to prints, and the comforts, advantages, and advancements they offer.
While they may have many names, all such instructions are considered Prints as a broad category. The most common print types are as follows.
Blueprints
    These Prints pertain to the construction of items, typically through the use
of Building Tomorrow or Trap Making.
Recipes
    These Prints provide instructions for crafting consumables, typically
through the use of Brewing of Prepare Meal.
Plans
    These Prints are tailored for Engineers to produce large scale projects and
items using Forging the Future, Weld, and Smelt.
Techniques
    These Prints are specialized instructions for modifying the way that a
survivor uses speci c skills, such as Printing, Medical Genius, or Research.
Unique
    Some Prints are so rare, so untested, and so unique that they don’t last.
These Prints are known as Unique Prints, and have an expiration date of 6
Months. These Prints are also so complicated that they cannot be duplicated,
transcribed, or copied by any in-game means.

417
     Prints will always include the name of the print, which is typically the
name of the effect the print has, the mechanics of the object produced or skill
modi ed, the required Skills to use the print, the required components to use
the print, and the signature of the Marshal, Storyteller, or Director who issued
the print. Whenever a print is used, it must be present with you as you check at
Logistics to log the use of your Skill and the Print relating to it to ensure
that all requirements of the print has been met. For more information on using
prints, see the Skills section for the appropriate crafting Skill.
Building Augmentations & Work Stations
    Engineers are capable of not only building large work stations, but also
modifying existing structures so that individual rooms or even whole buildings
can bene t from the new features. Work stations are large engineered objects
which are required for certain crafting Skills to be used. After an Engineer has
established a Basic Forge, they can produce several other useful work stations,
such as a Research Library, Distiller’s Still, Printer’s Table, or a Workbench.
Any work station, unless otherwise speci ed, can only have 1 user working at it
on one project at a time.
    Engineered building augmentations take a room or building, and commit it to
a speci c use, providing the necessary ventilation, niceties, and tools needed
to fully utilize the space for its chosen purpose. A room is de ned as a space
inside a building no more than 10ft by 10ft that is clearly divided from other
spaces inside the building. A building is de ned as a structure no smaller
than 10ft by 10ft that can contain any number of rooms within. A room cannot
have more than one augmentation on it at once. A building can only have one
augmentation on it, unless otherwise stated, and any room within a building that
has an augment on it does not gain the bene t of the building’s augment.
    So for example, a 30ft by 10ft lodge is upgraded by an engineer. The
back 10ft has been divided as a separate room and upgraded as a Kitchen. The
Building has been given the upgrade “Beati c Building” to enhance faith based
healing done inside. However, only the front 20ft by 10ft space bene ts from the
Building Augment, while the back Room bene ts from the Room Augment.
    You can  nd more information on Augmentations and Work Stations in the
Skills section under Forging the Future.
418

 Individual Item Usage
Using an Item
    To use an item, the item must be properly available to your character,
either because it is being worn (in the case of Armor, armor attachment Gizmos,
and worn Gizmos), you are in the area affected (such as building augments), or
it is held in hand (in the case of pretty much everything else). Objects that
are stored in bags, pouches, on nearby tables, or otherwise not actively be
interacted with cannot be used.
Number of Hands
    Even though it seems obvious, all characters in Dystopia Rising are assumed
to have two hands, and can only wield as many objects as two hands would allow.
For example, a character can wield a shield (one handed) and a standard weapon
(one handed), or a two handed weapon (two handed), but not a shield (one handed)
and a 2 handed weapon (two handed).
Worn items, such as armor, worn Gizmos, and armor attachments do not require a hand to wield. All other items, unless otherwise stated, require one hand to use.
    So for example, we have a very well equipped character heading into the
fray, wearing a suit of armor, a worn Gizmo (a pair of boots), and a bandolier
full of bottled brews. In hand, they have a shield and a standard weapon. During
the  ght, they want to use one of the brews in their bandolier. The character
must free up a hand, by either removing their shield or sheathing their weapon,
to be able to use a Brew.
    All crafting, unless otherwise stated, requires two hands throughout the
entire process. Items relating to crafting do not count against your hands total
during crafting so long as they are not wielded as a weapon. This allows for
multiple crafting items to be utilized during the crafting process so long as
the item allows for such combinations.
Items with Special Abilities
Many items grant additional bene ts beyond their basic use as armor or weapons. Unless otherwise stated, the item must be properly worn or wielded if the character wishes to use its special abilities. Additionally, you must meet any and all pre- requisites for wielding or using an item to gain access to its special abilities.
For example, if someone wishes to use a two-handed weapon that grants a special ability for Farmers, but does not have the Two-Handed Melee Skill, they cannot access the special ability.
For another example, if a character has a spare suit of armor in their bag that gives them access to Avoid, and are wearing another suit of armor that gives them access to Parry, they can only use the special ability and armor points of the armor they are actively wearing.

419
 Knuckles, Beaters, and What Can Target Them
    Brawler’s Knuckles are a special category of weapon representing a glove,
brace, or similar  st weapon that can be used via the Brawling skill. Knuckles,
unless otherwise stated, do not provide any additional mechanics to the wearer
beyond their damage. So for example, a basic pair of Brass Knuckles allows a
brawler to call “two” damage instead of “one.” Knuckles do not grant the user
the “Iron Fists” skill unless speci cally stated.
    Because brawler Physical Reps represent more than just the weapon, but
the hand and forearm as well, any strike landed against a Beater style contact
safe combat weapon count as having struck the limb. Because of this, knuckles
cannot be targeted by the ‘Break Weapon’ melee attack. However, it does mean
that a brawler’s beaters can be targeted by the “Mangle Limb” melee attack.
The only means by which a brawler’s Knucks can be directly targeted is via the
Concentrated Fire Range Attack modi er or by an area of effect that targets
melee items or Knucks.
Carrying Broken Items
or Items That Cannot Be Used
    While clearly you can defend yourself with items that are in good repair and
you have the requisite Skills to wield or wear, there are times when you might
be struck via an attack on something other than a working item or one you can
use. In any instance where you are struck by an attack or effect on an object
that cannot be used to block an incoming blow, the strike is assumed to have
struck the limb or body part nearest to the intervening object. Needless to say,
it can be a dangerous proposition to be caught carrying busted gear or equipment
you are not trained to properly use.
For example: a character is wearing a large hiking pack full of their scrounging haul when a bandit opens  re on them with contact safe foam darts. The darts hit the backpack. Whatever damage or Skills were carried by the darts are assumed to have hit the character’s torso since the backpack does not count as an item that can block contact safe foam dart attacks.
Another example: a character just had their shield broken by the “Break Shield” melee attack, and has disengaged in an effort to  nd someone to Patch Job it back together. Another attacker lays into their shield while it’s broken. These attacks count as having landed on the arm that the character has the shield still strapped to and they take whatever damage or skills were called with those strikes.
And a  nal example: a character is holding a pole-arm for a friend, and is set upon by an assassin. Out of re ex, they block the incoming attack with the pole-arm, even though they do not have the proper Skill to wield it. Any attacks landed against the pole-arm count as strikes to the arm or arms of the hand(s) holding it, delivering any damage or Skills to the character.
420

 Searching Bodies and Looting
When a person is incapacitated (Knocked Out, Tied Bonds, in Bleed Out, or within the  rst 15 minutes of having just been killed) a player may choose to loot items from a person.
    Looting equipment is not an instant action, nor is it a subtle action.
Ri ing through a person’s pockets, taking their weapons and gear, and patting
them down to make sure you got everything takes time and is evident to those
people around you.  When looting equipment, there are two options a player has
for looting to GRAB or to SEARCH.
    When a player wants to just take what is in a particular pocket, or, a
particular visible item they may place both hands on the object or above the
location that they are looting and say ‘Grabbing (descriptor)’.  When Grabbing,
the player must have both hands empty and most roleplay at least 5 seconds of
pulling materials from a pocket or satchel.  Players that are ‘Grabbing’ only
get one random item, if any, from the area they described.  Players are unaware
if there is more in the pocket or satchel that they grabbed from.  Armor and
items bound to a person may not be quick taken with the ‘Grabbing’ mechanic, nor
can containers that contain a number of objects.
    When a player wants to make sure that they are getting everything possible
from an incapacitated target, they may SEARCH the target.  Searching a target
requires 60 seconds of uninterrupted roleplay using both hands.  After
roleplaying for at least a full 60 seconds (slow count of 60) of searching, the
player will receive any and all items that an incapacitated character has on
them, unless the mechanics of the item state that the item cannot be found via
searching.
Both SEARCHING and GRABBING require roleplaying that the character that is doing the looting is actively searching or taking objects. Just kneeling next to a person is insuf cient in regards to this requirement. If a person does not roleplay looting then the person being looted is to respond ‘Please roleplay looting, start again.’
    Looting, when done against another player character, is considered a player
character verses player character action and requires a Marshal.

421
 Player Character versus Player Character Death and Theft
While the action of Dystopia Rising is not driven by player on player combat or theft, in a world of gray morality sometimes player on player combat or theft happens. Player on player combat or theft requires an additional step to ensure that it is all handled in accordance to the rules. Whenever player versus player activity is going to occur, the following guidelines must be followed:
Combat & Character Death
The player initiating player versus player combat MUST get a marshal prior
to initiating the combat.
    The player who initiates player versus player combat must have been in play
as the assaulting character for at least 3 hours.
    The player who initiates player versus player combat must remain in play as
that character until the end of the next Twelves or at least 3 hours, whichever
is greater. They may take pains to hide or lie low during that time, but cannot
leave the play area or start their NPC shift in order to avoid repercussions.
    In the instance that an effect would cause a player character to attack
another player character (such as diseases or the like), the attacking character
is still responsible for getting a Marshal.  The availability of a Marshal
ensures that the attacks are happening at less than ‘planned opportune’ moments.
Theft/Safety Check System
    This following section serves to outline the system used in Dystopia Rising
for both weapon safety checks as well as the tagging and theft system where it
pertains to weapons.
    This is not meant to fully explain what is required for a weapon to pass
a safety check, simply how it is tracked. The Dystopia Rising Network provides
guidelines for safety checking weapons, however each item is approved on a case
by case basis by the branch that it has been brought to. For speci cs on this,
please check with your local branch staff.
    All weapons must come to Check-In/Logistics before going into play. The
weapon should be checked for safety and the Item Card that accompanies the
weapon must be presented.
    Once the weapon is con rmed for safety and card legitimacy, a paper/fabric
wrist band is attached. It can be attached anywhere on the weapon, so long as it
does not interfere with use or holding.
    On the wrist band must be written the owner’s player #, the Weapon Damage
422

 and Marshal signature. If there is an effect on the card (Poison, Body, etc) an
“E” should be written with the damage amount.
• If a weapon is upgraded or the tag falls off, it must be brought to Logistics to have a new tag put on.
    • Multiple item cards will be assigned to multiple props. If a player has
    only one prop, they must come to Logistics when they swap weapons to have
    the tag replaced.
Theft
The player initiating the player versus player theft MUST get a Marshal prior to initiating the theft. This applies to interpersonal stealing as well as “cabin raiding” activities in sleeping areas.
    The player who initiates player versus player theft must have been in play
as the thieving character since the start of the Twelves.
    The player who initiates player versus player theft must remain in play as
that character until the end of the next Twelves or at least 3 hours, whichever
is greater. They may take pains to hide or lie low during that time, but cannot
leave the play area or start their NPC shift in order to avoid repercussions.
    All Physical Representations and props that are stolen by a player must
immediately be brought to Logistics and turned in. Item cards for stolen items
may be reclaimed later when the Physical Representations and props are picked
up. Any items taken from a character on NPC shift will be immediately returned
to the player who had the items taken from them.
    At the discretion of the Staff Member overseeing the theft scene,
particularly valuable, fragile and/or sentimental items will not be taken to
Logistics, but rather a red tag will be left behind with the item indicating
that it has been stolen in-game. That item should be removed from sight/play
immediately.
Theft System
    • All theft must be witnessed by a Marshal and be signed off on the back of
    the sheet.
    • When an Item is stolen it is brought to Logistics after the one hour
    “in-play” time has passed and logged in the Theft Log (blank available in
    Dropbox).
    • When the owner comes to exchange card for item, con rm that the damage
    matches on both items.

423
     • Take the card, return the weapon. Write the previous owners Player # on
    the Item Card.
    • When the thief comes back for the card, the original owner’s player number
    is written on the back of the card. When they bring a prop to match this
    card, the original owner’s number is written on the tag in addition, as
    such: “S - #437”
    • A player can bring a stolen item to The Black Market (Skill: Black Market)
    to get the item “Washed” and have the player number removed. This must be
    done at a Black Market Meeting and the Item Card must be present. This is
    not a “use” Skill when picking up the Item Card.
    • Card checks will now include a prop tag versus Item Card check.
    • Item Cards must be kept with the weapon. Both on the same person is
acceptable, the intent is that in a card check the weapon Item Card must be
easily accessible and presentable upon request.
    The purpose of this is multifold:
    • Owners of stolen weapons will now be easily found and their props returned
after a card exchange.
    • Give the owner a chance of  nding the character who had stolen their
weapon, giving an actual risk to the thief.
    • Tags will fall off or need to be replaced. This will allow the game a
semi-regular opportunity to safety check each weapon.
    • Con rm the quality of the weapon that was stolen, removing the chance of
a Starter card being turned in rather than what might have been a higher damage
item card.
    • Allows a quick visual of approved weapons/cards from a distance or in a
melee.
    • Allows a player to throw a weapon to their friend in combat without having
to discuss how much damage it does.
    • Provides shady groups such as Black Market the ability to ‘ le off’
recognizable identi cation of stolen merchandise.  NPC inner circle members of
Black Market may charge to take stolen goods and render goods untraceable.  NPCs
will be able to return these items with new tags and cards, sans the original
owner’s player numbers.
424

 Mechanical Terms and Combat Modifiers
Damage Modi ers
Beyond speci c Skills that cause modi ed damage and effects when combat occurs, there are a variety of effect modi ers that de ne how damage is delivered and whom it effects to a higher degree. These modi ers, while not as common as basic damage and Skill calls, are important to know in regards to how they interact with the world.
(Strain/Creature) Bane
    Bane damage deals double damage to the subject of the Bane.  Focuses of Bane
damage can be speci c Strains, Creature types, or types of Undead. This damage
is applied even if the damage does not penetrate armor.
Blessed (Faith)
    Blessed damage deals enhanced damage against certain creatures, especially
the undead, ignoring damage reductions. Common Blessed types are Tribes, Fallow,
Knights, Visions, Family, Ashes, Darwin, and Hedon. These words have been
chosen since they sound the least like the names of other faiths. This does no
additional damage.
Body
    The Body damage modi er means that the damage received from the attack
ignores all forms of armor and damage reductions and goes directly to a person’s
health. This differs from Fire damage only in that Fire damage has unique
effects to many undead as well as interacts with equipment differently than
Body.
Fire
    Fire damage has advantages and disadvantages. Fire damage ignores armor;
however, there are certain kinds of armor and Gizmos that prevent Fire damage.
The only difference between Fire damage and Body damage is that modi ers that
prevent Fire damage do not prevent Body damage.  Additionally, some zombies hit
with Fire damage swing Fire damage for 5 minutes. You’ve been warned.
Heavy
    Some weapons are just built big, and their heavy construction allows them
to crush their way through forces that would otherwise hold them back. These
weapons deal Heavy damage, which ignores Damage Reductions.

425
 Infection
    If af icted with the Infection status effect, it lasts until it has been
removed by standard means of curing toxins, or until triggered. If you are
knocked into Bleed Out while af icted with the Infection status, after 30
seconds your Bleed Out count will pause and you will rise as a shambler zombie
with Health equal to half your permanent Health. (Use beaters and small weapons,
or short-haft safe weapons as needed.) Once knocked into Bleed Out again, your
original Bleed Out resumes, and the individual comes back to their senses,
typically with serious emotional issues. While Infected, you should roleplay  u
and fever-like symptoms, as something is clearly wrong with you.
Poison
    Every Poison has its own Item Card with unique effects; however, regardless
of any other effect a Poison might have, whenever someone suffers Poison damage,
they become ‘poisoned’. Poisoned individuals do not refresh their Mind Points at
the Twelves until cured, though they will refresh immediately once the status
effect is cured. Poisons may have other effects, as described on their cards.
Poison also triggers the Baywalker Toxic Shock disadvantage.
Rad (Radiation)
    Many areas in Dystopia Rising were irradiated during the Fall, and radiation
is an insidious threat. Radiation damage comes in two forms: Direct and Area
of Effect. Direct Radiation is a modi er to standard Ranged, Melee, or Mental
Attacks. Area of Effect Radiation Damage is pervasive, and ignores armor.
Prolonged or heavy exposure to Radiation can cause the victim to become af icted
with Disease: Radiation Sickness. Any form of Radiation Damage causes Pure
Bloods to lose an equal number of Mind Points as Health Points suffered.
Rending
    Rending damage damages both Armor and Health equally. For example, if ’10
Rending’ is called, the target’s armor suffers 10 points of damage, and the
wearer also takes 10 Body damage.
Toxic
    Many creatures and plants in the wasteland produce toxins even the most
resilient Survivors can’t shrug off. Healing individuals af icted with the Toxic
effect costs double the Mind Points until the Toxic effect has been cured. Toxic
Damage also triggers the Baywalker Toxic Shock disadvantage.
Area of Effect Modi ers
    Unless otherwise stated, Skills and items only affect a single target that
has been struck. However, you will run into some modi ers that allow an effect
to hit multiple targets.
By My Voice
This Area of Effect will affect anyone that is out-of-character capable of hearing what the person is saying, up to a maximum distance of roughly 30 yards. By My Voice does not require Line of Sight with its victims, ignoring walls, doors, and other barriers, representing all manners of shrapnel, gases, waves of
426

  re, concussive force, and more. By My Voice Area Effects are applied to Armor
before Health, and cannot be Avoided.
By Sight Of (Item or Creature)
    This Area of Effect will affect anyone that can physically see (and is
looking in the direction of) the item or creature named in-game. This effect is
immediate, and cannot be prevented by closing your eyes or averting your gaze
after the call is made. Blinded characters or characters that are not looking in
the direction of the call at the time of the call are not affected. This modi er
is often combined with items that blind or have a visual effect.
Zone Effect (Location)
    This Area of Effect is often used by Marshals and Storytellers. If the
modi er Zone Effect is called, then anyone that is within the de ned Location is
affected by the following skills or damage called.  Zone Effects ignore armor
and cannot be Avoided as it is assumed to be a complete immersion into the
effect that is being called.
Radius (Distance)
    This Area of Effect is found typically with Traps and other small deployable
effects. This ability affects any and all targets in the de ned Radius.
Common NPC Abilities & Effects
    There are a huge variety of creatures found in the Dystopia Rising
landscape, and many of them have special or unique abilities that make them
particularly deadly. List below are some of the more common abilities and
effects found across the wasteland.
Absorb
    This ability allows a creature to learn Skills and traits, instantly
accessing them. To Absorb a skill, the creature must witness the Skill being
used and declare “Absorb 1, Absorb 2, Absorb 3. Absorb ‘X’ Skill” where ‘X’ is
the target skill.
Agony
    Countered by Parry, Avoid, or Refuse depending on delivery method. For
example, if a ranged bullet is accompanied by “Agony,” then you can use “Avoid”
to negate the attack. This ability causes 10 seconds of excruciating pain. After
a successful Ranged or Melee Attack, the user must declare “Agony, Dazed 10
seconds”.
Animate
    This ability allows a creature to reanimate fallen zombies and survivors who
have bled out to  ght as shamblers with 10 Body swinging 1 Damage. Small melee
weapons or brawling boffers should be used if available; longer melee weapons
should be short hafted as needed.

427
 Blood Scent
    Countered by Avoid. Some zombies mark their prey with a violent eruption of
blood. Like sharks at a kill, surrounding zombies frenzy, relentlessly attacking
the target of Blood Scent.  After landing a successful Ranged Attack, the user
of the Skill must call “Blood Scent! All Undead Attack (Target).” If at all
possible, NPCs should communicate beforehand to be ready to react to the Skill
use without the modi er being called.
Burrow
    A creature may declare “Burrow!” and point at the ground with their other
forearm in front of their face, and immediately move to another point within 40
steps of entry before resurfacing. While the creature is unseen, anyone can see
the ground moving and shifting as the burrower moves.
Cleave
    Countered by Parry. This ability is a devastating melee strike called as
“Cleave! Disarm, 10 Damage”
Confuse
    Countered by Mind Resist. Friends become enemies and enemies become friends
for ten minutes.  Unlike Body Puppet, a person affected by Confuse is required
to attack and may not  ee.  The Confused target will  ght to the fullest of
their ability and skill.
Daze
    Countered by Parry, Avoid, or Mind Resist depending on delivery method. This
ranged or melee effect prevents the target from using any offensive abilities
or move for its duration. The target may still defend themselves normally,
including the use of non-movement based defenses such as Avoid, Parry, Balance,
Bounce, Blind Fighting, Mind Resist, and Refuse.
Devour
    Countered by Parry or Avoid, depending on delivery. A ranged or melee attack
that causes loss other than Health Points. This could be ‘Devour x Mind’ –X
amount of Mind Points lost– or other descriptors.
Diseased
    This effect af icts the target with a speci c named Disease. This disease is
assumed to be at “Stage One” unless otherwise stated. When introducing a Disease
carrier into play, it is suggested that the initial carrier of the Disease
have small printouts of the mechanical effects of the Disease that is carried.
Further information can be found in the Diseases Appendix.
Enslavement
    Countered by Mind Resist. This  psionic ability causes a target to follow
a single simple non-self destructive command. ‘Defend me,’ ‘Bring me X item,’
or ‘Kill X person’ are all samples of Enslavement. Enslavement can be defended
against with Mind Resist and lasts for 30 minutes or until Bleed Out.
428

 Fear
    Countered by Refuse. This ability inspires tremendous Fear of the user
in its target for  ve minute unless otherwise stated. By declaring “Fear,
cannot attack me,  ve Minutes!” the target cannot attack or engage the user.
Unless otherwise noted, a target may still defend themselves, but will always
prioritize  eeing over  ghting whenever possible.
Flight
    Creatures with this rare skill are immune to melee attacks due to being out
of range, though ranged attacks still work at a 1 damage reduction. Flight is
represented by creatures pointing at the sky.
Frenzy
    When seriously wounded, some heavily infected beings can enter a state
where pain no longer matters. Creatures that Frenzy take very little damage from
strikes, becoming immune to Mangled Limbs, Fear, Nail, Charisma, and psionics
for 10 minutes.

429
 Gnaw
    When a creature with this ability comes on a helpless or bleeding target,
they can double over and begin to call ‘Gnaw’. Gnawing a person in icts 1
damage every 10 seconds, and causes agonizing pain to the person being gnawed.
If someone is in Bleed Out, this damage does not stack nor shorten the count -
however it does cause the person being gnawed on to scream in pain as they are
being eaten alive. If someone has used Feign Death, these points of damage do
indeed strike and cannot be reduced. Zombies that Gnaw regain 5 Health every
10 seconds of uninterrupted Gnawing.  To simulate the use of Gnaw, individuals
using the Skill should crouch low over the target of their gnawing and call out
‘Gnaw 1, Gnaw 2...’ until they reach ‘Gnaw 10’.  At the end of Gnaw 10, the
recipient of Gnaw takes 1 damage and the individual using Gnaw regains Health.
Impale
    Countered by Parry. An Impale attack pins the struck limb of its target
until the striking weapon, fang or claw can either be removed via a Mangle Limb
or destroying the impaling creature. A creature that uses Impale may not make
further attacks except for ‘Gnaw’. Impaled targets lose the ability to use
ranged weapons or melee weapons of Standard size or larger, but can still make
brawling attacks, melee Small weapons, and use psionics.
Melt (Item)
    Countered by Parry or Avoid depending on delivery. This Skill works the same
as Break Weapon, Armor, or shield except that it brings that Crafts Level of
the affected item down by a Crafts Level when it is used. For example, a Crafts
Level 3 item would become a Crafts Level 2 item. Items that are Crafts Level 1
stay at crafts level 1.
Rip Through
    This ability allows the user to remove Nail or Impale effects by ripping
themselves free of the offending weapon. This effect causes the user to take  ve
Body damage.
Shatter
    Countered by Parry. Shields are great for defending against all manners of
creatures, but a few have come up with answers to the noble shield. A creature
can call “Shatter! Break Shield, Mangle Limb” and strike the target’s shield to
incapacitate their shield arm and shield in one go.
Slaughter
    Countered by Parry as long as the Slaughter hits you from the front. A
horri c attack, hearing a creature declare ‘SLAUGHTER!’ is a sure sign that you
should run. Slaughter deals 50 points of Body damage. If a target is dropped
into Bleed Out due to a Slaughter, that target has a shortened one minute Bleed
Out (regardless of effects that extend Bleed Out times). Seriously. Run!
Snare ‘X’
    Countered by Parry, Avoid, Carry ‘X’, or Bomb Awareness, depending on
delivery. Some creatures and items can completely bind and immobilize a
target instantly. Snare effects trap the target, pinning their legs and arms,
preventing any movement or the use of weapons and Skills except for Carry. The
target may still speak and use psionics. The Snare can be removed by overcoming
430

 the value ‘X’ with a suf cient Carry Rating via the Carry, Rescue, or natural
strength of characters freeing the target. So, for example, Snare ‘4’ could be
defeated by someone using Carry ‘4’ to escape, having another person use Rescue
(Carry 5) on them, or 4 other people pulling them free of the Snare.
Sunder Limb
    Countered by Parry. An attack that removes a limb from a body completely, a
Sundered Limb is represented by completely hiding the af icted limb from sight
(tucked into clothes, covered with jacket, covered with cloth). A Sundered Limb
has the same effects as a Mangled Limb, however, they require twice the standard
Mind Point cost and time duration for Fix Limb to work.
Terror
    Countered by Mind Resist. A horri c psionic attack that forces the victim to
 ee from the source of Terror for 5 minutes. The victim will attempt to  ee from
the presence of the individual if it is possible to do so regardless of safety;
if they cannot, they will cower or otherwise show panic and deference behaviors.
Unless otherwise noted, a target may still defend themselves, but will always
prioritize  eeing over  ghting whenever possible.

431
 Derangements and Diseases
Outside of basic damage and Skill effects, there are a few other dangers that are present in a survivor character’s life. These dangers are those that
stay with them, even after they’ve had time to rest or a doctor has seen to their wounds. While it is common knowledge that many injuries and diseases can be cured by taking a trip through the Grave Mind, most survivors prefer to seek out more reasonable medical treatment. These injuries and effects will be listed on your character sheet in the Notes section, as well as in the appropriate time slot on the back of your character sheet for when it was received. Any mechanics associated with these injuries must be followed until such a time as they have been properly treated and removed from your character sheet.
Detecting Diseases, and Derangements
    Post-apocalyptic medicine is far from an exact science, but thanks to the
persistent need for care, even in the post-infection world, there are those who
can study a subject and provide quick diagnosis of problems through the Check
Status Skill.
Check Status on Diseases
    If a character uses the Skill ‘Check Status’ on a person who has a disease
or illness they may ask ‘Do you have any diseases’.  In the instance that the
person being checked does have an illness or disease they must reply ‘Yes’ as
well as say the name of the disease or illness.  The person who is checking the
illness or disease may look up what means are required for purging the disease
or illness.  In the instance that the disease or illness is a new mutation of
sickness, primarily a plot related outbreak or engineered biological weapon,
if a player has the Educated Skill for purposes of research as well as the
appropriate lore for investigation (examples being Lore: Diseases and Plagues,
Lore: Biological Warfare) the player can research to ask questions such as ‘What
are the symptoms of this new illness,’ ‘What are the physical rami cations of
this illness,’ or ‘How do I cure a particular progression of the illness.’
Check Status on Derangements
    If a character uses the Skill ‘Check Status’ on a person who is suffering
from a Derangement they may ask ‘Do you have any Derangements’. In the case that
the person being checked does have a Derangement they must reply ‘Yes’ as well
as state the name of the Derangement. The person who is checking the Derangement
may look up the effects of the Derangement and any special requirements that may
be needed to treat the condition. They may proceed with treating the condition
via Head Shrink should they so choose and be able to do so. As a reminder,
Derangements may not be cured via Head Shrink within the  rst hour of receiving
the derangement.
432

 Diseases
    On occasion, plot related materials may cause the spread of diseases or
illnesses. Due to the incredibly robust nature of most post-apocalypse Strains,
many of these diseases and illnesses can be halted prior to any major harm being
done.  However, if a disease or illness is allowed to gestate or to spread then
the effects of the Disease could become deadly.
    Each disease listed below is broken down into three stages for game
simplicity. Conditions can be considered Onset, Active, or Severe.  During the
Onset of most diseases and illnesses, the individual Strain’s body can  ght off
the illness with a little rest and assistance. The physical restrictions and
negative effects of the illness or disease can progress to a much more dangerous
(and dif cult to cure) second stage known as Active, which then in turn could
progress to a severe state.
    Each listed illness and disease has been broken down into the three stages
of illness, has been given a ‘progression trigger’ for what will cause the
disease to move onto the next stage, has the mechanical changes that a player
suffers per each stage of an illness, is provided the required roleplaying
requirements for each level of illness, and is given the required cure for each
stage of the individual disease or illness.
    Some illnesses have been given triggers that will cause the disease
to spread to others in an area as well as events that can (and will) cause
spontaneous outbreaks. These diseases and illnesses are intended to be uses as
Storyteller tools. In the instance that a Marshal wishes to have a spontaneous
outbreak, due to the marshal witnessing regularly reoccurring conditions that
could trigger a spontaneous outbreak, the Marshal must  rst clear the outbreak
with a Storyteller.
    Staff members are encouraged to print out small paper copies of the
mechanics for a disease in the instance that they are being introduced into
play.  When a player becomes a carrier for a disease or illness, the name of the
illness contracted should be put into the notes section of a player’s character
card.  On the back of the player’s character card the player should record the
contraction of the illness in the appropriate time  eld.  If a player has their
disease cured by another player, the curing player must sign off on the back
of the  rst player’s sheet listing the cure or means in which the disease was
cured.
    If a character uses the skill ‘Check Status’ on a person who has a disease
or illness they may ask ‘Do you have any diseases’.  In the instance that the
person being checked does have an illness or disease they must reply ‘Yes’ as
well as say the name of the disease or illness.  The person who is checking the
illness or disease may look up what means are required for purging the disease
or illness.  In the instance that the disease or illness is a new mutation of
sickness, primarily a plot related outbreak or engineered biological weapon,
if a player has the Educated Skill for purposes of research as well as the
appropriate lore for investigation (examples being Lore: Diseases and Plagues,
Lore: Biological Warfare) the player can research to ask questions such as ‘What
are the symptoms of this new illness’, ‘What are the physical rami cations of
this illness’, or ‘How do I cure a particular progression of the illness’.

433
     A player that has become infected with a disease or illness must roleplay
the illness or disease accordingly.  The player who is carrying an illness or
disease is not to state the name of the illness or disease they are carrying
unless they have been given an in-character reason to say the name.  As an
example, if there is a known outbreak of an illness with the symptoms and the
player starts feeling the same symptoms, the player may say that they believe
they have the particular illness.
Stages and Progression
    Each disease is broken down into three stages for simplicity:
Onset
    The earliest stage when minimal treatment and rest can typically cure a
    patient.
Active
    The disease has become entrenched, and is now more dif cult to cure, and
    could worsen.
Severe
    The disease ravages the victim, and extreme measures are required to save
    them.
    Each listed illness and disease has been broken down into the three stages
of illness, each with a ‘progression trigger’ for what will cause the disease to
move onto the next stage. Each listing includes the mechanical changes that a
player suffers per each stage of an illness along with the required role-playing
requirements for each level of illness, and provides the required cure for each
stage of the individual disease or illness.
Contagious Conditions
    Some illnesses have been given triggers that will cause the disease
to spread to others in an area as well as events that can (and will) cause
spontaneous outbreaks.  These diseases and illnesses are Storyteller tools.  Any
Marshal may request to have a spontaneous outbreak due to the Marshal witnessing
regularly reoccurring conditions that could trigger a spontaneous outbreak. The
Marshal must  rst clear the outbreak with a Storyteller before proceeding.
    Staff members are encouraged to print out small paper copies of the
mechanics for a disease in the instance that they are being introduced into
play. On the back of the player’s character card, the player should record the
contraction of the illness in the appropriate time  eld.  If a player has their
disease cured by another player, the curing player must sign off on the back
of the  rst player’s sheet listing the cure or means in which the disease was
cured.
    A player that has become infected with a disease or illness must roleplay
the illness or disease accordingly.  The player who is carrying an illness or
disease is not to state the name of the illness or disease they are carrying
unless they have been given an in-character reason to say the name.  As an
example, if there is a known outbreak of an illness with the symptoms and the
player starts feeling the same symptoms, the player may say that they believe
they have the particular illness.
434

 Bad Brain Syndrome
An extremely terrifying disease, and perhaps the most frightening in this post-apocalyptic world. ‘Bad Brain’ onset is the precursor to complete mental subsumption by the Infection. In short, those who give in to ‘Bad Brain’ end up as Raiders - Infected whose bodies are yet unaffected, but minds are already completely subsumed by the Grave Mind. Symptoms are manicness, extreme aggressiveness, obliviousness and self-identi cation towards the undead, and a lingering craving for human  esh. If left untreated for too long, the infected will eventually either die, or be subsumed.
Spontaneous Triggers
None.
Means of Contraction
    Bad Brain Syndrome most commonly occurs in instances where individuals
have had prolonged exposure to the blood, saliva, and organic matter of living
Raiders.  It is extremely rare for this disease to transmit through dead
Raider tissue (such as meaty bits) however it is not completely unknown for
particularly hearty Raiders to transmit the disease via their  esh post mortem.
Onset Roleplay
Nervousness, anxiety, and occasional bouts of hostility.
Mechanics
Once per twelves loss of self-control (attack others), desire to ‘gnaw’ others in Bleed Out without mechanical advantage.
Cure
Progression
2 months without cure.
Active Roleplay
Nervousness, anxiety, bouts of hostility, hallucinations.
Mechanics
All of prior mechanics increased to twice per twelves.
Cure
Progression
2 months without cure.
Severe Roleplay
Nervousness, anxiety, bouts of hostility, hallucinations, occasional loss of motor skills.
Mechanics
All of Onset mechanics increased to 5 times per twelves.
Cure

First Aid at 20 Mind, 10 minutes roleplaying draining  uid from brain.
First Aid at 20 Mind, Gizmo: Glowing Blue liquid, 10 minutes role-playing draining  uid from brain and replacing with Glowing Blue Liquid.
First Aid at 20 Mind, 2 Gizmo: Glowing Blue Liquid, 1 Gizmo:
Meaty Bits, 30 minutes role-playing brain surgery and injection of Glowing Blue Liquid into Hypothalamus.
Progression
2 Months without cure. Progresses to complete character death (no longer playable) due to the character becoming a Raider. This character is now an NPC
435
 Black Lung
Thick, toxic particles that have settled into the chest and lungs impair breathing and the ability to engage in prolonged labor. This sickness is non-infectious, but still potentially deadly due to its symptoms. Also known as Miner’s Lung and the Ironworks Cocktail.
Spontaneous Triggers
    Locations that have Forges, Workbenches, and Stills crammed into a space
where not enough area has been provided for Physical Representations or
appropriate props.
Means of Contraction
    Residing, sleeping, or spending extended time in locations that have
Forges, Workbenches, and Stills crammed into a space where not enough area has
been provided for a physical props. This sickness may also be contracted from
contaminated mines, smoke  lled work areas, and locations with toxic fumes.
Onset Roleplay
Occasional mucus producing cough, severe winding from physical labor, wheezing.
Mechanics
Banned from use of Escape, Chase, or Balance while at this stage.
Cure
Progression
Not curing by the end of the event, advances before starting next event.
436
Active Roleplay
Regular coughing every 20 minutes with occasional bloody mucus.
Mechanics
Banned from use of Escape, Chase, Balance, or Carry while at this stage.
Cure
Progression
Not curing by the end of the event, advances before starting next event.
Severe Roleplay
Severe coughing with blood loss with cough. Coughing near nonstop and doubled-over with chest pains. Movement is painful, breathing is painful.
Mechanics
Banned from use of Escape, ChaSe, Balance, or Carry while at this stage. Take 1 Body damage every 10 minutes from damage to lungs.
Cure
Disease removal via Brew, Meal, or Gizmo that removes diseases and 12 hours removed from Spontaneous Trigger sources.
Disease removal via Brew, Meal, or Gizmo that removes diseases and 12 hours removed from Spontaneous Trigger sources.
Medical Genius 30 minute operation on
the lungs with an expenditure of 10 Mind. Requires LORE: Diseases to perform this procedure.

Progression
Not curing by the end of the event, advances each month to do 1 additional Body damage per 10 minutes from damage to lungs and asphyxiation.
 Disresonance
Amental condition which typically only affects Psionists. Disresonance is caused by exposure to sites or situations that produce extreme psionic reverb as a result of emotional occurrences, or sites so steeped in past emotional reverb
that it affects the mind, sometimes years or even decades later. Symptoms include severe headaches, trouble seeing or focusing, whispers of voices in the mind, and minor crystallization of tissue.
Spontaneous Triggers
None.
Means of Contraction
    Disresonance is spread via psions being in contact with areas of extensive
psionic activity.  These locations may exist due to psionic crystal growths,
incredible emotional resonance, or near surface protrusions of the Grave Mind.
Disresonance is not contagious via secondary carriers, only via direct psion
interaction with one of these ‘psionic hot spots’.
Onset Roleplay
Psions suffer from occasional blurred vision, headaches, and bouts of vertigo.
Mechanics
All Psionic Power use cost 5 Additional Mind Points to activate.
Cure
Progression
One month uncured.
Active Roleplay
Psions suffer from severe headaches, chills, and nausea induced by dizziness. Occasionally individuals report hearing voices and seeing undead that are not there.
Mechanics
All Psionic Power use costs 10 additional Mind Points to activate.
Cure
Severe Roleplay
Psions suffers from crippling head pains, vomiting, cold sweats, and occasional blood loss via the nose, eye, and ears. Severe hallucinations of hearing voices of the dead, regular vivid visual hallucinations of ghostlike  gures, and feelings of dread.
Mechanics
All Psionic Power use costs 10 additional mind and 5 body to activate.
Cure

Medical Genius at
15 Mind Points,
and 30 minutes of ‘Trepanation’ roleplay.
Medical Genius at 30 mind, and 30 minutes of ‘Brain Surgery’ roleplay.
Replacement Parts at 20 Mind, 1 Gizmo: Glowing Blue Liquid, 30 minute role-play of partial lobotomy with forced  esh reconstruction.
Progression
One month uncured.
Progression
One month month uncured, progresses to death due to brain hemorrhaging.
437
 Tuberculosis
Alethal, highly infectious disease that targets primarily the lungs and has a high mortality rate. The sturdiness of modern Strains means that the infected can still live long lives and it’s more dif cult to contract than in pre-fall times, but still deadly. The classic symptoms are a chronic cough with blood- tinged sputum, fever, night sweats, and weight loss (the last giving rise to the formerly prevalent colloquial term “consumption”).
Spontaneous Triggers
None.
Means of Contraction
    Prolonged interaction with molded area, corpse  lled regions, or the sick.
Onset Roleplay
Heavy cough that produces mucus. Coughing  ts occur after physical activity, when
laying at rest for prolonged periods, and periodically over the hour.
Mechanics
No physical mechanics
Cure
Active Roleplay
Heavy  ts of coughing that produce mucus
and blood. Coughing  ts occur regularly, and any activity that causes heavy breathing or lung irritation forces heavy coughing  ts that produce muscle spasms.
Mechanics
Severe Roleplay
Progression beyond human capacity. Heavy  ts of coughing that produce mouthfuls of blood. Coughing  ts occur regularly, and any activity forces heavy coughing  ts that produce muscle spasms and occasional rib fractures.
Mechanics
Mechanics – Coughing  ts 3 times per twelves that have the effects of Nerve Punch and do 10 Body damage.
Replacement Parts at 20 Mind, 1 Gizmo: Glowing Blue Liquid, 1 Gizmo ‘Meaty Bits’, 30 minute roleplay of replacing damaged sections of lung via operation.
Progression
1 month uncured, progresses to death
Medical Genius at 10 Mind Points, 30 minute role-play of forced medical attention
and ‘lung Scraping’. Strains being more robust than humans were is both good and bad at times.
effects of Nerve and does 10 Body
Cure
Punch damage
Progression
1 month uncured
438
Progression
1 month uncured

Coughing  ts 1 per twelves that has
Medical Genius at
20 Mind Points, 30 minutes of role- playing operating on the infected lungs and breathing tube to remove fungus and sterilize lungs.
Cure
 Pneumonia
Pneumonia is an in ammatory condition of the lung—especially affecting the microscopic air sacs (alveoli)—associated with fever, chest symptoms, and
a lack of air space. Typical symptoms include cough, chest pain, fever, and dif culty breathing. Coughing  ts, wheezing, and shortness of breath are common.
Spontaneous Triggers
    Spending extensive periods in the rain or cold without proper cover or
equipment or being active when one is already a carrier of illness or disease.
Means of Contraction
    Some forms of Pneumonia can be spread via viral or bacterial spread.
Failing to wash hands, clean areas, and properly sanitize eating areas can
result in spread of Pneumonia causing illnesses.
Onset Roleplay
Wheezing and shortness of breath, fever, aches and pains in chest.
Mechanics
Loss of ability to use Chase or Escape
Cure
Progression
1 month uncured
Active Roleplay
Shortness of breath, coughing, cold sweats,
Severe Roleplay
Severe breathing dif culties, coughing  ts, immobilized due
to pain and body aches, dementia causing fever, and overall weakness.
Mechanics
All of prior negatives, maximum total Health reduced to 1/2 (rounded down) of total health during duration of illness. Until cured no effects will raise your health above half.
Cure

Medical Genius at 10 Mind with 30 minutes
of assisted respiration roleplay
Medical Genius at 20 Mind with 30 minutes
of assisted respiration and consumption of 3 Brews: Cough and Cold (must be Cough and Cold, no other similar brews will work).
fever, chest.
Mechanics
and pain in
All of
loss of ability to move faster than a walk.
Cure
Progression
1 month uncured
Medical Genius at 30 Mind with 30 minutes of assisted respiration, injection of 3 Gizmo: Glowing Blue Vial
prior negatives,
Progression
1 month uncured, results in death
439
 Frostbite
Amedical condition where localized damage is caused to skin and other tissues due to extreme cold. Frostbite is most likely to happen in body parts farthest from the heart and those with large exposed areas. The initial stages of frostbite are sometimes called “frost nip”.
Spontaneous Triggers
    Not wearing enough clothes in dangerously cold conditions.
Means of Contraction
    Weather conditions, frozen zombies.
Onset Roleplay
Bluish discoloration
of extremities at  rst, and then face and lips. Shivering, feeling of cold, nausea, and loss of  ne motor skills.
Mechanics
As per Mangle Limb, that does not go away until Frostbite is cured. After curing Frostbite the limb must be  xed via Fix Limb.
Cure
Progression
Does not progress
by itself without additional af iction of Frostbite being added.
440
Active Severe Roleplay Roleplay
First Aid at 30 minutes of role-playing warming the affected areas with soaking in warm water while adding blankets to increase the core temperature.
As per Sundered Limb, that does not go away until Frostbite is cured. After curing Frostbite the limb must be  xed via double use of Fix Limb.
Medical Assistance at 30 minutes of roleplaying warming the affected areas with soaking
in warm water, adding blankets to increase
the patient’s core temperature, application of bandages to regions missing  esh.
Cured using ‘Glowing Blue Liquid’

Bluish and blackened discoloration of extremities, face,
and lips. Shivering, feeling of cold, nausea, and loss of  ne motor skills. Loss of  ngers and toes. Portions of  esh missing.
Mechanics
Loss of limbs, bluish and blackened  esh around face and torso. Shivering, feeling
of cold, nausea, and impaired vision.
Mechanics
As per Sundered 4 Limbs, that does not go away until Frostbite is cured. After curing Frostbite each limb must be  xed via double use of Fix Limb.
Cure
Progression
Does not progress
by itself without additional af iction of Frostbite being added.
Cure
Progression
Does not progress
by itself without additional af iction of Frostbite being added.
 Gibbering Disease
Related to Lockjaw, Gibbering Disease causes a slurring of speech and a swelling along the mouth and throat which causes attempted communication to become nothing more than unintelligible gurgles and gasps. This blood borne illness eventually results in constricted arm movements and eventually death due to mental decay.
Spontaneous Triggers
    Refusing to return to in character conversation when being asked to kindly
remain in-character.  Outbreaks occur when large groups of people speak or act
unnecessarily out of character.
Means of Contraction
    Gibbering Disease is fortunately not contagious.  Medical professionals work
tirelessly to ensure that Gibbering Disease never reaches contagious state.
Onset Roleplay
Garbled speech, bloated tongue and mouth, shortness of breath.
Mechanics
Inability to use any Faith powers, or speak clearly for 30 minutes.
Cure
Progression
Fortunately does not progress on its own.
Active Roleplay
Gagging breath, incapable of speech, dementia due to oxygen deprivation.
Mechanics
Severe Roleplay
Occasional blackouts from lack of oxygen, struggling for
breath, bloated mouth, incapable of speech.
Mechanics
As per effect of Choking Blow for 30 minutes followed by knockout.
Cure

Requires being wounded by at least 15 damage to Bleed Out ill humours.
Cure
As per effect of Choking Blow for 30 minutes
Requires being wounded to Bleed Out to drain out ill humours.
Progression
Fortunately does not progress on its own.
Requires either passing through the Grave Mind or 1 hour of extensive Torture to force the body to regulate
its serotonin and adrenaline levels.
Progression
Fortunately does not progress on its own.
441
 Hemophilia
Anon-infectious condition often caused by parasites and infected leeches, though almost identical symptoms are occasionally caused by over-exposure to deadly chemicals, or even simply grievous bloody injury that didn’t heal right. Those affected by Hemophilia have very thin blood, and  nd it extremely dif cult to stop simple nose bleeds let alone normal injuries. Even normally mundane accidents suddenly risk being life and death.
Spontaneous Triggers
None.
Means of Contraction
    Large number of undead and raiders carry Hemophilia triggering toxins on
their bodies.  Contraction of Hemophilia is actually the result of a number of
other plague born interactions.
Onset Roleplay
Wounds produce excessive volumes of blood. Bruises form more easily.
Mechanics
Mangled Limbs become Sundered Limbs, Bleed Out time reduced by 1 minute. Does not apply to Skills which cause
a shortened Bleed Out (such as Slaughter).
Cure
Progression
1 month without cure
Active Roleplay
Wounds produce excessive volumes of blood. Wounds take longer to heal. Bruises form more easily.
Mechanics
Mangled Limbs become Sundered Limbs, Bleed Out time reduced by 2 minutes. Applies to Skills which cause a shortened Bleed Out (example, a Slaughter could be an instant kill).
Cure
Severe Roleplay
Wounds produce excessive volumes of blood.
Wounds take longer to heal. Bruises form more easily. Small normally ignorable wounds become severe issues to manage.
Mechanics
All forms of damage taken to the characters health (the body) is doubled. All Mangled Limbs are Sundered Limbs. Bleed Out time is reduced by 3 minutes, which applies to Skills which cause a shortened Bleed Out (example, a Slaughter could be an instant kill).
Cure
442
Medical Genius at 20 Mind, 30 minutes of roleplay doing a blood transfusion
Medical Genius at 20 Mind, 30 minutes of roleplay doing a blood transfusion, 5 damage to a second willing character who is the blood donor (donor must be same Strain at this level).

Progression
1 month without cure
Medical Genius at 20 Mind, 30 minutes of roleplay doing a blood transfusion, 5 dmg to a second willing character who is the blood donor (donor must be same Strain at this level).
Progression
Does not progress further.
 Necrosis
Necrosis causes the extended breakdown and liquefaction of living tissue due to the  esh being consumed or destroyed on a cellular level. Necrosis often times turns  esh areas into yellowish liquid pits, or, can cause almost a rotting and decaying of a section of prior healthy  esh. Necrosis is not contagious, however the toxins, viral injections, or bacteria that cause necrosis may be. Animal attacks that cause necrosis are commonly found in warm regions, and need to be proactively tended to as to prevent muscle damage.
Spontaneous Triggers
None.
Means of Contraction
Contracted through deadly poisons as well as many arachnid and serpent bites.
Onset Roleplay
Small patch of black and green discoloration on contact point (roughly 1 inch in diameter). Mild
itch and irritation
at source. Dif cult
to identify on Retrogrades.
Mechanics
Active Roleplay
Medium patch of black and green discoloration on contact point (roughly 6 inches in diameter). Feeling of ache and pain similar to being bruised
in area. Dif cult
to identify on Retrogrades.
Mechanics
As per mechanics of Mangle Limb that cannot be cured until Necrosis is cured.
Cure
Severe Roleplay
Large area of black and green discoloration around pits and missing sections of  esh (roughly 12-24 inches in diameter). Feeling similar to a bruise combined with a scrape. Easy to identify even on Retrogrades.
Mechanics
As per mechanics of Sundered Limb, that cannot be cured until Necrosis is cured.
Cure
None to start
Cure
Progression
Progresses at the following twelves (or 3 hours later, whichever is longer

Medical Assistance at 20 Mind Points, use of Gizmo: Meaty Bits. 30 Minutes of  esh grafting roleplay.
Medical Assistance at 20 Mind Points, use of 2 Gizmo: Meaty Bits. 30 Minutes of Agony causing  esh grafting roleplay.
Replacement Parts at 20 Mind Points, use of 2 Gizmo: Meaty Bits and
1 Gizmo: Glowing Blue Liquid. 30 Minutes of Agony causing muscle and  esh replacement roleplay.
Progression
Progresses at the following twelves (or 3 hours later, whichever is longer)
Progression
Progresses at the following twelves (or 3 hours later, whichever is longer). Sweating Sickness at Active State is added.
443
 Radiation Poisoning
Anon-infectious condition caused by over exposure to radiation. Degree of effect depends on the dose of radiation exposure. Relatively smaller doses result in gastrointestinal effects such as nausea, vomiting, and bleeding. Relatively larger doses can result in rapid death.
Spontaneous Triggers
Extensive exposure to damaging glowing green and blue rods.
Means of Contraction
Onset is triggered by carrying unshielded glowing green rods or 6 irradiated objects for more than an hour. Active is triggered by carrying or prolonged exposed to glowing blue rods or 12 irradiated objects for more than an hour. Severe is triggered by carrying or being exposed to multiple glowing blue rods or 18 irradiated objects for more than an objects for more than an hour. Speci c devices, events, and situations may INSTANTLY introduce different degrees of radiation poisoning. Retrogrades require 1 degree of exposure higher than normal to trigger Onset or Active radiation poisoning. Severe radiation poisoning rarely occurs to Retrogrades.
Onset Roleplay
Nausea, vomiting, headache, cough, dizziness, and fever.
Mechanics
Active Roleplay
All Roleplay from Onset with addition of hair loss, blisters, and bleeding.
Mechanics
Mind Points do not refresh at the 12s without healing at least 10 body worth
of Health when already at full Heath each Twelves.
Cure
At the turning of the 12’s, lose 5 Mind Points.
Cure
Progression
Does not Progress
Severe Roleplay
All roleplay from Onset and Active with addition of severe burns and blisters.
Mechanics
444
Medical Genius and Cure Toxins at 20 Mind Points. 30 Minutes
of roleplaying blood transfusion and forced vomiting combined with forced hydration.
Cure
Mind Points do not refresh at the 12s without healing at least 20 body worth of health when already at full heath each Twelves
Medical Genius and Cure Toxins at 30 Mind Points. Requires use of Gizmo: Glowing Blue Liquid 30 Minutes
of roleplaying blood transfusion and forced vomiting combined with forced hydration.

Medical Genius and Cure Toxins at 30 Mind Points. 30 Minutes
of roleplaying blood transfusion and forced vomiting combined with forced hydration.
Progression
Does not Progress
Progression
If uncured within 3 month of in iction, will cause death to non-Retrograde carriers
 Sweating Sickness
Amysterious disease with debatable sources. Some believe poor sanitation or disease-ridden carriers spread this disease, others believe it’s carried by extremely high sources of the Infection. Regardless the source, it’s an extremely dangerous malady - the body becomes much less ef cient at pulling itself back together and much more susceptible to harm. Symptoms include very sudden senses of apprehension, cold shivers (sometimes very violent), giddiness, headache and severe pains in the neck. Later stages include ruptured vessels in the body which causes blood to seep from the pores.
Spontaneous Triggers
None.
Means of Contraction
    Toxic water sources, carried by insects, rats,  eas, shared containers,
blood and saliva transferal.
Onset Roleplay
Aches and pains in the neck and shoulders, occasional cold shivers, and headache.
Mechanics
Inability to use the Carry Skill. Iron Slaves can still
use Carry Skill, but no longer have their Strong Back advantage.
Cure
Progression
Progresses in 1 month if not cured
Active Roleplay
All symptoms from
Onset with addition of spasm like shivers, blurred vision, bouts of paranoia, and occasional cold sweats.
Mechanics
All mechanics from Onset with the addition of the inability to accurately use thrown weapons, bolt action weapons, or bows due
to clouded vision and unstable hands.
Cure
Severe Roleplay
All symptoms from Onset and Active with the addition of prolonged periods of dementia
and audio and visual hallucinations.
Mechanics
All mechanics from Onset and Active with addition of Knockdown twice per twelves representing muscle cramping.
Cure
Progression
In 3 months progresses to being cured

Medical Assistance at 10 Mind Points and 1 crafted Meal (may be generic). 20 minutes of strength building roleplay in addition to meal and recovery time.
Medical Assistance at 10 Mind Points and 1 crafted Meal (may be generic but requires card) and one brew (may be generic but requires card). 30 minutes
of strength building roleplay in addition to Meal and recovery time.
As per Active Cure, with the addition of a Gizmo: Glowing Blue Liquid added to the Brew.
Progression
Progresses in 1 month if not cured
445
 Derangements of the Mind
The apocalypse is a harsh place. Men and women are torn limb from limb, the bodies of the dead and the dying litter the ground. Businessmen stab associates in the back, while people betray both friend and foe in the name of survival. It’s not surprising that in a way to cope with these brutal realities of everyday life, people turn inward. Their minds fracture and break as they try to make sense of a world where each day might be their last.
    And then there’s the Grave Mind— the monstrous creature born of the
Infection. It rips and tears at a person’s consciousness as they pass through
the gates of death, needling through the cracks of their will. It can break a
survivor— both body and mind.
    There are many Derangements to potentially suffer from. With that said,
Dystopia Rising recognizes that real world mental illness is not something to
be taken lightly, and these Derangements are not meant to accurately depict
any real world ailments or conditions— despite being heavily inspired by them.
Instead, this list is purely meant for roleplaying purposes and to give these
conditions direct, in-game mechanics so that players know how to generally
roleplay the conditions without being psychological experts.
    If portraying a certain conditions makes you uncomfortable for any reason
OOC, please alert the staff; that way, your character can be assigned another
Derangement to replace it.
Developing a Derangement
    When your character suffers a particularly traumatic experience, such as
passing through the Grave Mind, it’s likely that they’ll receive a Derangement.
A Storyteller or Marshal will tell you what Derangement your character will
receive at the time— or you can request a speci c Derangement that makes
sense for your character and the circumstances surrounding the situation.
Derangements are essentially mental af ictions that must be roleplayed until
they are cured. They can be either permanent or temporary, and usually require
extensive roleplay before they are gotten rid of. The most common way to receive
a Derangement is passing through the Grave Mind, but there are also other ways
to receive them in-game; your character sheet will be clearly marked if your
character has received one of these af ictions.
Roleplaying Derangements
    When roleplaying a Derangement, it’s important to remember that they’re not
supposed to be funny or silly. Derangements are serious af ictions and should be
roleplayed accordingly. Think about your character’s experiences and incorporate
them into your Derangement roleplay. Why would your character feel anti-social?
Is there something that happened that would make your character turn away from
the rest of the world? Why would your character construct another personality?
Is it a protection mechanism, or something else? Thinking about these questions
can help you get into your character’s head when roleplaying a Derangement.
Derangements are also an excellent opportunity for furthering character
development and progression.
446

 Derangement Durations and Mechanics
    Derangements are more than just roleplaying requirements. Derangements
can either be Temporary or Permanent, and many will have a Trigger condition,
as well as a Mechanical disadvantage while af icted. When you receive a
Derangement, you immediately begin suffering the effects of it, and must
continue to roleplay it until cured via appropriate in-game means. When you
receive a Derangement, your character is affected by it constantly. This means
that you have to actively roleplay the Derangement until it is cured. If you
downplay or act against your character’s Derangement, then another Derangement
may be assigned by the StoryTelling staff. If one has to be assigned, the new
one becomes temporary while the old one turns into a permanent Derangement. This
represents a character’s worsening mental degeneration. Derangements may not be
cured within the  rst two hours that they are received.
    Each Derangement will list its Name, Duration, and if appropriate its
Trigger, followed by its Role Play requirements, and its Mechanics. A temporary
Derangement ends at the end of the event, worked through by your character
during down time, or as a side effect of a jaded world view living in the
wasteland. Repeated exposure to a Derangement’s triggers or suf ciently severe
trauma can cause a temporary Derangement to turn into something far more
serious— a permanent Derangement. A permanent Derangement takes signi cantly
greater effort to cure, and persists until cured.

447
 Die Roll
1-3
Derangement
Addictive Personality
Addiction
Typical Triggers:
Brew, Meal
Nester Syndrome
Agoraphobia
Typical Trigger:
Locations associated with Trauma, Crowds, Markets, Bars, Dangerous Situations
Memory Loss
(Amnesia)
Typical Triggers:
None
Mechanic
Description: The Victim seeks out and indulges in addictive substances regularly, and has become dependent on them to function. Dif cult to identify with how many survivors use drugs and hooch as coping mechanisms.
Role Play: The need for addictive substances controls the victim’s mood, leading to irritability the longer they are without their vice. Victims often suffer from withdrawal symptoms as well, such as headaches and nausea if they “go straight” for prolonged periods.
Mechanics: Victim’s Mind Points do not refresh on the 12s unless they consume at least 1 Brew or Meal that causes an “Addiction” effect prior to the 12s.
Description: The Victim actively avoids environments that present unknown dangers or are associated with past trauma. Often confused for Freak-outs or simply being a shut-in.
Role Play: The victim suffers from anxiety, doing everything they can to avoid the source of their trauma, especially spaces where there is the unknown as to whether their stressors could be present, such as large social environments, or open spaces from which the victim cannot easily  ee back to safety. Victims will often develop a speci c safe space, such as their home, or a trusted ally, that they have dif culty leaving the presence of.
Mechanics: Victim suffers from “Fear” for every 10 minutes they spend around their triggers. Refuse may be used to overcome one instance of this fear.
Description: The Victim’s long term memory is severely damaged, and is inaccessible to them. Despite repeated efforts, no reliable cure has been found for the Semper Mort and their extreme case of this derangement.
Role Play: The victim loses all memory from
before the moment they received this derangement, forgetting everything including their name, friendships, connections, and are generally lost as to where they might be. Skills are used for the  rst time with a great deal of confused dif culty. Victims are often scared, confused, and paranoid while starting to cope with their memory loss. Mechanics: Victim may not utilize any Lores or perform Research via the Educated skill.
4-6
7-9
448

 Die Roll
10-13
Derangement
Psychopath
Antisocial Personality Disorder
Typical Trigger:
None
Reclusive
Avoidant Personality Disorder
Typical Triggers:
Fear of Failure, Fear of Rejection, Speci c Society or Strain
The Twitch
Chronic Motor Tic
Typical Triggers:
Stress, Fatigue, Excitement, Combat
Mechanic
Description: The Victim is easily irritable and prone to impulsive behaviors with a total disregard for others. This derangement is considered an early warning sign of developing Thrill Kill Disorder. Role Play: The victim displays absolutely no empathy for others, and exhibits an in ated sense of self worth. Most often, these impulsive behaviors will result in vandalism, manipulation, persistent lying, theft, irresponsibility, and social and physical aggression. Punishment does not dissuade this behavior, nor the negative consequences of their actions.
Mechanics: Victim cannot use Refuse against the Insult skill, and must respond violently.
Description: The Victim becomes withdrawn, pessimistic, and suffers from low self-esteem. Role Play: The victim becomes deeply sensitive
to negative feedback, real or imagined, which leads them to avoid most relationships and appear exceptionally shy. They suffer from a severe fear of rejection and avoid con ict or interaction with others that might bring criticism their direction. Mechanics: None
Description: The victim suffers from persistent, dif cult to control physical or vocal repetitions. These are very dangerous given that they have a habit of manifesting at the worst time while under pressure.
Role Play: When in the presence of their triggers, the victim will have a sudden, fast, repeated movement or sound that has no reason or goal (such as blinking, grimacing, quick arm or leg movements, or sounds like grunting, stutters, and throat clearing). Some people have many tics, but they are either movement or sound, typically not both. The symptoms can be held off for a short time, but feels relief only after giving in.
Mechanics: Victim cannot use the Attach, Unlock, or Balance skills.
14-17
18-20

449
 Die Roll
21-23
Derangement
Miner Anxiety
Claustrophobia
Typical Triggers:
Enclosed Spaces, Bindings, Entrapment
Mechanic
Description: These victims almost universally suffered some manner of trauma relating to becoming entrapped or con ned, and now exhibit panic behaviors when presented with their stressors. Unsurprisingly, miners and jones are the most common victims of this derangement.
Role Play: Victims cannot tolerate being in environments where they feel trapped, enclosed,
or pinned, going to great lengths to avoid small rooms and buildings, or tight spaces like tunnels
or crawl-ways. If forced into a situation where the victim has to confront their trigger, they will be quickly overwhelmed with the need to  ee, and will suffer from shortness of breath and  ght or  ight behaviors to escape their triggers.
Mechanics: Victim suffers from “Fear” for every 5 minutes they spend in a small or crowded enclosed space or trapped via Tie Binds or Nail. Refuse may be used to overcome one instance of this fear.
Description: This condition rarely gets diagnosed, often just attributed to the personality of the victim, but is in fact a break from reality.
The victim genuinely believes they are the most important person on earth!
Role Play: The victim believes they are the center of the universe. They give orders, make unreasonable demands, and refuse to follow orders from others. Each delusion is speci c to the individual, so one victim may see themselves as a wealthy trade magnate in control of a vast trade network, while another sees themselves as a high ranking  gure from one of the apocalyptic religions.
Mechanics: Victim will not willingly follow orders that are not their own.
Description: The victim’s mind, in an effort to escape or survive severe trauma, fractures and creates two unique personalities sharing the same memories. These personalities recurrently take control of the victim’s behavior.
Role Play: This extreme form of PTSD causes a
split in your character. Each personality has
it’s own distinct wants, likes, and motives, but share the same memories and experiences. There should be a highly personal trigger that causes
the switch between the personalities, de ned by
the player appropriate to the trauma that caused their split. Each personality should have its own distinct mannerisms and demeanor (movement, speech patterns, posture, etc), so that when the switch occurs quickly and subtly, the two personalities can be clearly told apart from one another. This derangement is not two whole and unique people with their own memories and experiences, but rather,
a drastic shift in how you socially interact with others.
Mechanics: None
24-26
Deluded Self-Importance
Delusions of Grandeur
Typical Triggers:
Social Con ict, Competition
Split Personality
Dissociative Identity Disorder
Typical Triggers:
Unique to the Individual
27-30
450

 Die Roll
31-33
Derangement
Eating Disorder
Anorexia
Typical Triggers:
None
Mechanic
Description: The victim becomes deeply food and body conscious, avoiding eating where at all possible, either due to a past food related trauma, poisoning, or severe body image issues.
Role Play: The victim should be avoidant to eating, making excuses for why they aren’t hungry (not wanting to waste food, it doesn’t agree with their stomach, etc) and trying to change the subject. They will suffer from painful cramping and nausea if forced to eat. Make up should be used to create the appearance of sunken cheeks and eyes over time. Note: This does not mean you shouldn’t eat Out of Game! For goodness sake DO EAT, just be sure to do so OOG away from where folks will see you In Game. Mechanics: Victim will not willingly consume Brews or Meals. They deal 1 less damage with Brawling, Melee, and Thrown weapons to a minimum of 1 and cannot use the Carry or Rescue skills.
Description: The victim develops an unreasonable belief that another character of high standing or notoriety is completely in love with them, to the point of acting as though they are a couple in an active relationship.
Role Play: The victim will go to great lengths to support this belief, ful lling their role within the relationship, using pet names, and becoming deeply lovesick if they cannot at around the trigger of their affection. It’s also likely that the victim will lash out jealously if their trigger is involved with someone else or doesn’t actively reciprocate their obsessive behavior. When selecting the other character, keep the victim’s own personality in mind, and choose someone that they would naturally be attracted towards and adore. This should not be seen as comical, but tragic and rather creepy and scary.
Mechanics: Victim must spend at least 5 minutes in line of sight of their Trigger once per 12s, or all social skills costs +1 Mind Point to utilize.
Description: The victim has a burning need to be
the center of attention, and will go to great lengths to stay there. Occurs often among Vegasians, Pure Bloods, and Entertainers. More extreme forms
of this can manifest as what’s known as “Therapy Dependence”.
Role Play: The victim will constantly be “on”
and perform in front of others to gain the most possible attention. The victim is liable to be lively, vivacious, and constantly seeking approval from others. They may make loud and inappropriate comments, act out, fake injuries or illness, or lie to gain the attention of others. This constant need to please others will also lead to mood swings and constantly  uctuating opinions and beliefs depending on their audience.
Mechanics: The victim cannot use Refuse to defend against the Charisma skill.
34-36
Stalker’s Complex
Erotomania
Typical Triggers:
Speci c Person
37-39
Vegasian Fever
Histrionic Personality Disorder
Typical Triggers: Social Situations, Competition

451
 Die Roll
40-42
Derangement
Hot Headed
Impulse Control Disorder
Typical Triggers:
None
Mechanic
Description: The victim is at a complete loss to stop themselves and constantly acts on impulse without thought of consequences until after the fact. Many miss this derangement when diagnosing Mericans, believing it to simply be part of the victim’s core personality.
Role Play: Impulses come to mind, and the victim acts on them without hesitation, leading them to
end up in dangerous, confrontational, and foolish situations that a more rational mind may have avoided. If someone insults them, they will  ght them. If they want something, they will take it. If they have an opinion, they will voice it and loudly. The victim may run into battle without backup or throw themselves headlong into danger without thinking of the consequences until afterwards. Mechanics: Victim cannot Refuse the Insult skill.
Description: The victim has an irrational fear response whenever presented by the trappings of death, be they mobile or not, resulting in severe anxiety and a constant state of dread.
Role Play: The victim must run away from all zombies, Full Dead, and Retrogrades as described below. The victim also will  ee any situation where dead bodies or obvious viscera are present, or
any other clear signs of death, such as cof ns and grave sites. This is not a rational fear, but a gut wrenching need to get away. Even if you were once friends with Full Dead and Retrogrades, you have
to be reviled by them and  ee to avoid them at all costs.
Mechanics: Victim suffers from the effects of “Fear” any time they are in the presence of their Triggers. Refuse may be used to overcome this fear for 1 minute with intense discomfort.
Description: The victim has a persistent and
nearly automatic need to steal and hoard objects, regardless of if they are useful or not. They often times will not even realize they have done it until after the fact. Lascarians seem to demonstrate
a disproportionately high occurrence of this derangement.
Role Play: It doesn’t matter whom an object may belong to, the victim is just as likely to steal from their friend as from an enemy. The victim is not necessarily subtle about these thefts, either, often brazenly walking off with things or pocketing them without thinking in front of other people. Mechanics: Victim must attempt to steal at least 2 times per 12s, if not more.
43-45
Zedophobia
Kinemortophobia
Typical Triggers:
Corpses, Zombies, Full Dead, Retrogrades
46-49
Filcher
Kleptomania
Typical Trigger:
None
452

 Die Roll
50-53
Derangement
Tantrumatic Episodes
Intermittent Explosive Disorder
Typical Trigger:
Stressors
Pain Junkie
Masochistic Disorder
Typical Triggers:
None
Mechanic
Description: The victim becomes volatile and irritable, often responding to stressors with disproportionate reactions. This derangement is considered a close relative to Hot Headed and can be easily confused with it.
Role Play: The victim is prone to explosive tantrums, in excess of what would be deemed
an appropriate response to their triggers. The victim may attack others, harm themselves, destroy property, scream, or simply lash out emotionally during their outburst, only to have sudden remorse, regret, or embarrassment immediately afterwards. Mechanics: Victim must have at least 2 episodes per 12s, each lasting no less than 20 minutes.
Description: This derangement is hotly debated by head shrinks whether it’s physical or psychological, but regardless of source, the victim  nds intense pleasure from receiving pain of any kind, especially from outside sources. Some believe this is an early onset of surgical addiction.
Role Play: The victim’s pain receptors register pleasure instead of pain, leading to dangerous behavior as the victim will not make an effort to avoid injury. Over time the subject will seek out more and more dangerous situations that may result in pain, chasing down that next intense adrenaline rush.
Mechanics: Victim may no longer use Avoid, Parry, or Bounce, and may not wield Shields, wear Armor, or use other defensive Items.
Description: This derangement is associated with
a complete lack of desire, drive, or want for the world. Remnants are particularly prone to this condition.
Role Play: Similar to depression or hopelessness,
a victim suffering from survivor’s fatigue will seem despondent and disconnected from others. They may fail at their duties and responsibilities that they normally would accomplish easily, or become lethargic. Others should be able to notice that the victim is distinctly “off” or depressed.
Mechanics: All skills cost +1 Mind Point for the Victim to utilize.
54-57
58-60
Survivor’s Fatigue
Melancholia
Typical Triggers:
None

453
 Die Roll
61-63
Derangement
Bulldog Syndrome
Napoleon Complex
Typical Triggers:
Social Situations, Competition, Mass Combat
Dead Drop Disorder
Narcolepsy/Cataplexy
Typical Triggers:
None
Mechanic
Description: The victim demonstrates overly aggressive and domineering social behavior, often
to compensate for some personal handicap. This derangement manifests frequently among Retrograde and Red Star populations, especially in regions where they are heavily shunned or victimized.
Role Play: The victim is compensating for a real
or perceived handicap that they face in their day
to day life, such as being short, ugly,  nancially disadvantaged, or an outcast. The manifestation
of this domineering behavior is directly informed
by the individual’s sensitivity about their disadvantage, and will be triggered heavily by those that are ignorant or antagonistic about the victim’s shortcoming.
Mechanics: None
Description: This derangement is characterized by sudden bouts of unconsciousness, often while in
the middle of conversation or other activities, resulting in semi-paralysis, collapse, and in an awful lot of cases, death at the hands of the undead and raiders.
Role Play: The victim regularly “nods off” during the course of a typical day. These small bursts of sleep often occur in moments of rest like sitting, reclining, or leaning, but can also occur standing up or during lulls in physical activities like crafting or writing. It is not uncommon for this to happen mid conversation. These brief bouts of unconsciousness leave the victim disoriented when they jerk back awake.
Mechanics: Victim suffers from the effects of “Knockout” once per 12s.
Description: This derangement is rarely diagnosed, as it can easily be confused for pride or vanity on the part of the victim. Pure Bloods and Accensorites are common sufferers of this particular derangement, though they rarely consider themselves victims. It is not uncommon for this to develop alongside other derangements.
Role Play: The victim displays a hugely in ated sense of self-worth, viewing themselves as a  awless paragon, an icon of perfection. They often become self-obsessed and will become preoccupied with their perceived superiority, especially when it comes to matters of appearance. The victim will go to great lengths to always look their best and will relish any chance to hear others praise their good looks and clear superiority.
Mechanics: None
64-67
68-70
Boaster
Narcissism
Typical Triggers:
None
454

 Die Roll
71-73
Derangement
Nightmares
Nightmare Disorder
Typical Triggers:
Unconsciousness
Mechanic
Description: This derangement is closely related to sleep terrors, but produce a far more violent and disorienting effect for the victim, often leading to bouts of violence if they are woken by others that they fail to realize are not part of the nightmare they were suffering from.
Role Play: The victim suffers from extremely vivid, and often violent nightmares. When waking from any form of unconsciousness, the victim is extremely disoriented and cannot differentiate the real world from the dreamstate they were in for the  rst few minutes. This inability to tell dream from reality may cause the victim to lash out at those around them or  ee while their mind is still caught up
in the nightmare. Their  ght or  ight response is closely linked to the nature and subject of their nightmares, which are usually a direct re ection of the trauma that created the disorder.
Mechanics: Any time the Victim comes out of an unconscious state, such as natural sleep, Knockout, etc, they treat all available targets, friend or foe, as enemies for 1 minute.
Description: This derangement occurs in
victims after having a panic attack or similar traumatic experience, leading to severe anxiety and fear of future attacks or traumas that could come at any moment. This can lead to Nester Syndrome and is clearly related to Miner Anxiety. It can also easily be confused for being paranoid.
Role Play: The victim constantly suffers from
a sense of dread and anxiety anticipating the next time they might  nd themselves confronted by their trigger. Most victims manage to cope with this low level of background stress functionally in their day to day life. The victims will go to great lengths to remain in perceived “safety” to reduce their stress, often becoming paranoid about their trigger. These avoidance techniques only make it worse when they are confronted with their trigger, leading to full blown panic attacks and  ght or  ight response.
Mechanics: Victim suffers from the effects of “Fear” for every 5 minutes they spend around their triggers. Refuse may be used to overcome this fear.
74-76
Freak-outs
Panic Disorder
Typical Triggers:
Speci c Situations,
Speci c Locations,
Speci c Creatures

455
 Die Roll
77-79
Derangement
Paranoid
Paranoia
Typical Triggers:
None
Mechanic
Description: The victim develops irrational beliefs that they are being persecuted, pursued, or otherwise targeted. This often is paired with a delusional sense of importance or the belief that vast conspiracies exist
to thwart the victim’s every action. Unsurprisingly, this often manifests alongside other delusional derangements such as Bulldog Syndrome and Schizoids.
Role Play: The victim is completely unaware
of their delusions, and will construct
ornate ideas of conspiracies, alliances, and antagonists hidden throughout their local society, insisting that shadowy hands and eyes exist everywhere. These delusions are almost always focused on the victim, and are the rationale and explanation for every misfortune and dif culty the individual suffers. The victim has a persistent feeling of being watched, and goes to great lengths to prevent others from spying on them while trying to spy on and discover these supposed hidden agents themselves.
Mechanics: None
Description: A sadly common derangement, often the result of trauma at the hands of other people.
These victims re-experience their trauma in some way anytime they are around their trigger. Soldiers and mercenaries are just as likely to suffer from this as farmers and scavengers.
Role Play: Victims tend to avoid their triggers, including things that even remind them of their triggers and are highly sensitive to normal life experiences. They carry themselves constantly ready to defend themselves, never fully disengaging from the trauma that caused their derangement. Victims often have a hard time relating with others who do not live with these constant reminders of trauma, and as a result may be socially awkward, on edge, and constantly living life with the lurking fear that their trigger could be around the next corner and they need to be ready to react accordingly, likely with extreme prejudice.
Mechanics: None
80-82
Shell Shock
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
Typical Triggers:
Combat, Speci c Places, Speci c Strains, Speci c Creatures
456

 Die Roll
83-85
Derangement
Fire-starter
Pyromania
Typical Triggers:
Boredom
Mechanic
Description: This derangement is rooted deeply in instant grati cation and a need for control over the world around the victim. The victim typically starts small in their destruction, but steadily increases the intensity and size of their  res over time to keep chasing the rush. Psions are particularly prone to this derangement.
Role Play: Fire-starters are almost never diagnosed until after they have suffered for a while, having kept their urges in check with smaller  res, but
the itch simply doesn’t go away. What started with twigs, leaves, and candles become coal grills and camp  res. Coal grills become furnaces and bon res. Bon res become Texas Tea fueled blazes that wipe out forests and settlements. The victim ultimately does this to have control in their life over something, even if it’s destruction to get that rush of instant grati cation and adrenaline.
Mechanics: Victim must attempt to light at least 1  re larger than a match or lighter per 12s or else their Mind Points do not refresh on the 12s. Each subsequent  re must be larger than the previous. Note: No actual  res should be lit. Contact a Marshal to set in-game  res.
Description: This insidious derangement is characterized by hallucinations, beliefs that the victim has magical powers, and/or severe distortions of behavior when dealing with their peers. It is frequently complicated by other derangements such
as paranoia, deluded self-importance, and hot headedness. Bizarrely, Psions and Priests seem better equipped to cope with living with this derangement than other survivors thanks to their already skewed perception of the world, and are often misdiagnosed with this derangement.
Role Play: This derangement can manifest in a
lot of different ways, especially when paired
with other derangements, but there are a few core behaviors that track across all of them. Schizoids manifest abnormal behaviors, such as mimicking
words of others, presenting no outward emotions despite having internal emotional responses,
silly and immature emotionality, the inability
to complete activities, and rambling disorganized speech, to list just a few. They also can develop hallucinations and delusions, believing they are dead, have magical powers, or interacting with people that aren’t there. This derangement is hugely disruptive to the victim, and dramatically impairs their ability to interact with other survivors. This condition is not cartoonish or funny, but is deeply tragic and painful to watch the victim devolve from functional person.
Mechanics: Victim may not utilize any skill that requires more than 30 seconds of concentration, though they certainly may try (and fail after 30 seconds) without understanding why it doesn’t work as they lose their focus.
86-88
Schizoid
Schizophrenia
Typical Triggers:
Stress, Hostility, Criticism, Emotional Intrusion, Psionics

457
  Die Roll
   Derangement
   Mechanic
   89-91
 Abandonment Issues
Separation Anxiety
Typical Triggers:
Isolation
 Description: Victims exhibit an inability to stay on their own for prolonged periods of time, as the result of a deep rooted fear of isolation. This
is particularly common among those who return from being left behind during evacuations and routs from battles.
Role Play: The victim develops a complete unwillingness to be left alone, ever. The victim actively seeks out those they consider trustworthy and sticks to them like glue. If they are rejected or pushed away, the victim will grow emotionally unstable and become very upset. It is almost impossible for the victim to enter a situation or space alone.
Mechanics: Victim suffers from the effect of “Fear” for every 5 minutes they spend alone and must
seek the company of others. Refuse may be used to overcome this fear.
   92-94
   Sleep Terrors
Sleep Terror Disorder
Typical Triggers:
Natural Sleep
   Description: Victims of this derangement suffer from restless sleep  lled with nightmares inspired by their deepest fears and trauma, often startling them awake with their own screams.
Role Play: The victim should appear tired and
groggy through the day, with heavy bags under their eyes. It should be apparent that they have not been getting suf cient sleep. The victim never recalls the dream that inspired the reaction, but will wake with all the symptoms of extreme duress, such as cold sweat, signs of panic, and racing pulse. Using a loud “scream” sound effect alarm to help wake you up in the morning can help you be sure to meet the requirements of this derangement.
Mechanics: Victim must scream, loudly, at least once per sleep cycle, or when waking up.
   95-97
  Thrill Kill Disorder
Severe Anti-Social and Narcissistic Personality Disorder
Typical Triggers:
Combat, Boredom
  Description: This derangement is a disturbing condition in which the victim becomes dangerously sadistic, eliciting pleasure from the hunting, torture, and killing of other living creatures. This is almost universally the result of contracting Bad Brain Disorder, but can also evolve from psychopaths that haven’t been properly treated.
Role Play: The victim views killing as the best
and greatest aspect of their life. They will actively seek out living creatures to kill, such as Raiders, animals, and other survivors. The undead simply aren’t the same thrill, since they can’t feel or suffer in the throes of their defeat and destruction. These victims will actively hunt, torture, and kill on a regular basis, relishing
in the experience and proudly demonstrating their enjoyment and prowess as a hunter and murderer. Needless to say, other survivors  nd this behavior deeply unsettling.
Mechanics: Victim must hunt, torture, and kill one living creature per 12s.
   458

  Die Roll
   Derangement
   Mechanic
   98-100
  Trapec Syndrome
Schizo-effective Behavior
Typical Triggers:
The Undead, or “The Neighbors”
  Description: Victims of this derangement are a very strange lot, developing a delusion by which they believe that the undead are in fact, still alive, and will have conversations with them, invent personalities for them, and be genuinely confused when the monsters turn violently against them. The Full Dead exhibit this behavior normally, but that’s because of their bizarre connection with the Legion. For anyone else, this condition is exceedingly dangerous to let take hold.
Role Play: Victims view zombies and other undead creatures as living people with personalities. If the victim sees a horde of zed, they may create one sided conversations with them, false memories, and even imagine long term relationships with the undead. These victims are often confused when the zed eventually attack them. After all, to them, that’s someone attacking them that they believe
to be an ally and friend. Many victims of this derangement will attempt to stop and subdue the attacker instead of killing them, believing them to merely be under some psionic in uence.
Mechanics: Victim may never initiate an attack against the undead, but once attacked, may defend themselves and  ght as normal.
               
459
